Products ID supports the way people communicate and interact in everyday lives, which means? | d Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives
Not Cognition, components is not related in Interaction Design, it is: | Chrestomathy
Identify needs & establishing is NOT basic activities in Interaction Design, but: | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience
Good utility is one of followings that is usability goals, but what NOT? | Satisfactory
Challenging is one of followings that users experience goals, but what is NOT? | Frustrating
Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Adaption is not the design principles, so what it is? | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency
Evaluate aspects of interactive product is NOT central to interaction design, so what is? | Determine how to create quality user experiences
Measurement is NOT one of these is useful heuristics for analyzing interactive product, so find it out: | Feedback
Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is NOT a concept of affordance, but: | Consistency
Feedback, is NOT principle of "Determine ways of restricting kinds of user interaction that can take place at a given moment", so whats in these? | Constraint
Consistency not called "Having attribute of an object that people know how to use it", so this is concept of: | Affordance
All usability and user experience goals will NOT be relevant to design and evaluation of developing product | TRUE
Memorability refers to the way a product support users in carrying out their task, is that true? If not, what it is? | Efficiency
Process of interaction design is NOT: Identify version - Develop user experience - Building design - Evaluate needs, but: | Identify needs - Develop design - Building version - Evaluate user experience
Building need activity is NOT the very much at the heart of interaction design, so what? | Evaluating what has been build
A main reason of having better understanding of people in context in which they live, work, and learn is NOT that can help designer evaluate user experience of product to fit it, but? | That can help designer understand how to design interactive product to fit it
People can NOT design a user experience | TRUE
People DO design a sensual experience | FALSE
Designing usable interactive products DONT require their activities are interacted, if not what else? | All of above
Components of interactive design is NOT include anthropology, if NOT, what else? | All of above
Design feedback & simplicity helps the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives, if NOT? What it is? | Analyzing & evaluating aspects
Identifying and specifying relevant usability and user experience helps analyzing & evaluating aspects, if NOT? What it is? | Lead to design of good interactive products
Context of use, user experience, culture differences, user groups optimize interaction between users & interactive product requires, is that true? If not, what? | Context of use, types of activity, culture differences, user groups
Interaction design DONT involve many inputs from some disciplines and fields | TRUE
The more feedback functions are, the more likely users will be able to know what to do next, if NOT? What else? | Visibility
Manipulating interaction modeling is NOT user & system act as dialog partners, if NOT, what else? | Capitalize users' knowledge of how they do in physical world
Frequently repeat actions performed on multiple objects is cons when using interface metaphors, if NOT, what else? | Design to look & behave literally like the physical entity it is being compare with
Shneiderman outlines one of core principle that need to follow how the system actually works is portrayed to the user through the interface, if NOT, what else? | Rapid reversible incremental actions with immediate feedback about object of interest
Models are typically abstracted from a contributing discipline that can be apply in interaction design, is that true? If not, what else? | Typically abstracted from a contributing discipline that can be apply in interaction design
Theories are helping designer constrain and scope the user experience of which they are desinging, is that true? If not, what else? | Providing of a means of analyzing and predicting the performance of users carrying out tasks for interfaces
Frameworks are typically abstracted from a contributing discipline that can be apply in interaction design, is that true? If not, what else? | Helping designer constrain and scope the user experience of which they are desinging
Exploring interaction modeling is describing how users carry out their tasks by telling the system what to do, is that true? If not, what else? | Users moving through virtual or physical environment
Users moving through virtual or physical environment refers conversing interaction modeling, is that true? If not, what else? | User & system act as dialog partners
Users moving through virtual or physical environment is instructing interaction modeling, is that true? If not, what else? | Describing how users carry out their tasks by telling the system what to do
Encouraging creativity and playfulness is one of benefits on instruction issuing, is that true? If not, what else? | Interaction is quick & efficient
Corrupting visual & model is opposition to using interface metaphors, is that true? If not, what else? | Too constraining
Conflicts with design principles is mistake made when designing interface metaphors, is that true? If not, what else? | All of the above
Conceptual model establishes a set of common terms they all understand and agree upon, is that true? If not, what else? | A high-level description of how a system is organized and operates
Involving identifying human activities and interactivites that are problematic can be problem space, is that true? If not, what else? | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked
Stress that it is a description of the user interface is referred to define conceptual model, is that true? If not, what else? | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces
Benefits of conceptualizing a design early encourages design team: Asking about how the conceptual model will be understood by targeted users, is that true? If not, what else? | Asking about how the conceptual model will be understood by targeted users
Interface metaphor is NOT a name for describing specific operation, is that true? If not, what else? | A central component of a conceptual model
Metaphor is browsing, analogy is drawing can be called different from metaphor & analogy, is that true? If not, what else? | Both the same
The relationship between users experience & product concepts is one of components on conceptual model of Johnson & Henderson (2002), is that true? If not, what else? | The concepts that users are exposed to through the product
Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: Concepts, is that true? If not, what else? | Major metaphors
A fundamental aspect of interactive design is to understand user experience and interaction product, is that true? If not, what else? | To develop a conceptual model
Decision about conceptual design should NOT be made after commencing any physical design | TRUE
Interface metaphors are NOT commonly used as part of a conceptual design | FALSE
Construction, frameworks provide another way of framing and informing design and research, is that true? If not, what else? | Theories, models
Pros when using interface metaphors is involving manipulating objects and capitalizing users knowledge, is that true? If not, what else? | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things
Decision-making NOT involving congnition process, is that true? If not, what else? | All of above
Attention is a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly, is that true? If not, what else? | Experiential
Perception involves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity, is that true? If not, what else? | Reflective cognition
It is NOT usual for cognitive prcesses to occur in isolation | TRUE
Presentation is the process to concentrate on, from the range of posibility available, is that true? If not, what else? | Attention
Memory refers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs, is that true? If not, what else? | Perception
Experiential involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately, is that true? If not, what else? | Memory
Design interfaces that promote recall NOT rather than recognition by using menu, icon, and consistently placed objects | TRUE
Design interfaces that constrain and guide users NOT to select appropriate actions after learning | TRUE
Icons and other graphical representations should NOT enable users to readily distinguish their meaning | FALSE
Bordering and spacing are NOT effective visual ways of separating info that makes it easier to perceive and locate items | FALSE
NOT making information plain when it needs attending to at a given stage of a task | TRUE
Limits the designer's imagination is NOT in mistakes made when designing interface metaphors, is that true? If not, what else? | All of the above
Conceptual model is exposed through the task-domain objects they are created and manipulated, is that true? If not, what else? | A high-level description of how a system is organized and operates
Making less underlying assumptions and claims can be called problem space, is that true? If not, what else? | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked
Reading, speaking and listening is NOT in cognitive aspects, is that true? If not, what else? | Reading, speaking and listening
Focussed and divided attention enables us to be selective in terms of the mass of competing stimuli but limits our ability to keep track of all events | TRUE
Focussed and divided attention NOT enables us to be selective in terms of the mass of competing stimuli but limits our ability to keep track of all events | FALSE
Information at the interface should be structured to capture users'attention | TRUE
Information at the interface should NOT be structured to capture users'attention | FALSE
Designs imply what for attention? | All the above
Designs imply what for perception and recognition? | Information is acquired and transformed into experiences
Obvious implication implies for perception and recognition, is that true? If not, what else? | Information is acquired and transformed into experiences
Designs imply what for implications? | Readily distinguishtheir meaning
Be audible and distinguishable imply for implications, is that true? If not, what else? | Information is acquired and transformed into experiences
Explain the interactions environment they are working in is conversational mechanism, is that true? If not, what else? | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop
Explain the interactions environment they are working in is co-ordination mechanism, is that true? If not, what else? | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something
Explain the interactions environment they are working in is awareness mechanism, is that true? If not, what else? | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom
Social aspects are the actions and interactions that people engage at work, is that true? If not, what else? | all of above
Talk and the way it is managed is integral to collaborative technology, is that true? If not, what else? | coordinating social activities
The distributed cognition approach describes NOT for what happens in a cognitive system, is that true? If not, what else? | all of above
People act through language is the basic premise of the language/action framework, is that true? If not, what else? | people act through language
Declarations is not the form of speech act theory, is that true? If not, what else? | Decorative
Language/action framework was developed to take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something, is that true? If not, what else? | inform the design of systems to help people work more effectively through improving the way they communicate with one another
The current speaker chooses the next speaker by asking an opinion is rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms, is that true? If not, what else? | the current speaker continues talking
The current speaker continues talking is rule 2 of Conversational mechanisms, is that true? If not, what else? | another person decides to start speaking
Another person decides to start speaking is rule 1 of Conversational mechanisms, is that true? If not, what else? | the current speaker chooses the next speaker by asking an opinion
Rules of Conversational mechanisms are followings, is that true? If not, what else? | the current speaker chooses the next speaker by asking an opinion
Another person decides to start speaking is rule 1 of Conversational mechanisms | FALSE
The current speaker continues talking is rule 2 of Conversational mechanisms | FALSE
The current speaker chooses the next speaker by asking an opinion is rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms | FALSE
The current speaker continues talking is rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms | TRUE
Another person decides to start speaking is rule 2 of Conversational mechanisms | TRUE
The current speaker chooses the next speaker by asking an opinion is rule 1 of Conversational mechanisms | TRUE
There are 5 rules of Conversational mechanisms | FALSE
How many rules of Conversational mechanisms? | 3
Synchronous computer- mediated communication is | Conversations are supported in real-time through voice and/or typing
Synchronous computer- mediated communication defines conversations supported in offline through paper notes | FALSE
Asynchronous computer- mediated communication is | Communication takes place remotely at different times
Asynchronous computer- mediated communication defines communication takes place remotely at same times | FALSE
In general, the term "affective" refers to emotional skills, is that true? If not, what else? | emotional response
Elicit good feelings in people are concerned with affective aspects of interaction design, is that true? If not, what else? | the way interactive systems make people respond in emotional ways
Anthropomorphism is the attribution of informative and fun, is that true? If not, what else? | human qualities to objects
People often prefer humanlike to those that attempt to be simple cartoon-like agents, is that true? If not, what else? | simple cartoon-like agents, humanlike
An increasingly popular form of well-designed interfaces is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface, is that true? If not, what else? | anthropomorphism
Animated agents are formed, often to be understood as predefined personality and set of moods that are manipulated by users, is that true? If not, what else? | tutors, wizards and helpers intended to help users perform a task
Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment, is that true? If not, what else? | generating verbal and non-verbal output
Emotional agents are formed, often to be understood as 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment, is that true? If not, what else? | predefined personality and set of moods that are manipulated by users
Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as predefined personality and set of moods that are manipulated by users, is that true? If not, what else? | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment
User frustration does NOT happen when a user's expectations are not met, is that true? If not, what else? | When a system requires users to carry out specific step to perform a task
User frustration happens when a system requires users to carry out specific step to perform a task, is that true? If not, what else? | When an application doesn't work properly or crashes
User frustration happens when an application doesn't work properly or crashes | TRUE
User frustration happens when a system requires users to carry out specific step to perform a task | TRUE
User frustration NOT happens when an application doesn't work properly or crashes | FALSE
User frustration NOT happens when a system requires users to carry out specific step to perform a task | FALSE
Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as generating verbal and non-verbal output | TRUE
Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be NOT understood as generating verbal and non-verbal output | FALSE
Expressive interfaces is | how the 'appearance' of an interface can affect users
Expressive interfaces is how the 'UI' of an interface can affect users, is that true? If not, what else? | how the 'appearance' of an interface can affect users
Expressive interfaces is how the 'appearance' of an interface can affect users | TRUE
Expressive interfaces is NOT how the 'appearance' of an interface can affect users | FALSE
Persuasive technologies is | how technologies can be designed to change people's attitudes and behavior
Persuasive technologies is how technologies can be implemented to change people's attitudes and behavior, is that true? If not, what else? | how technologies can be designed to change people's attitudes and behavior
Persuasive technologies is how technologies can be implemented to change people's attitudes and behavior | FALSE
Persuasive technologies is how technologies can be designed to change people's attitudes and behavior | TRUE
Persuasive technologies is how technologies can NOT be designed to change people's attitudes and behavior | FALSE
Paradigms refer to a new generation of user-computer environments, is that true? If not, what else? | A particular approach that has been adopted by a community in terms of shared assumptions, concepts, values and practices
Windows interfaces can be defined as represented applications, objects, commands, and tools that were opened when clicked on, is that true? If not, what else? | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse
Icons interfaces can be defined as a mouse controlling the cursor as a point of entry to the windows, menus, and icons on the screen, is that true? If not, what else? | represented applications, objects, commands, and tools that were opened when clicked on
Menus interfaces can be defined as offering lists of options that could be scrolled through and selected, is that true? If not, what else? | offering lists of options that could be scrolled through and selected
Pointing device interfaces can be defined as could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse, is that true? If not, what else? | a mouse controlling the cursor as a point of entry to the windows, menus, and icons on the screen
VR/VE stands for Virtual Relationship/Virtual Entry, is that true? If not, what else? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments
Interface type in 1980s included Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech and Appliance, is that true? If not, what else? | Command and WIMP/GUI
Interface type in 1990s included: Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech and Mobile, is that true? If not, what else? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance
Interface type in 2000s included Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech and Appliance, is that true? If not, what else? | Mobile, muptimodal, shareable, tangible, wearable, robotic, augmented and mixed reality
Appliance interface type that expert use in AutoCAD, is that true? If not, what else? | Command
UbiComp means compters have a strong influence, is that true? If not, what else? | Computers would be designed to be embedded in the environment and very popular
Can shrink or switch is advantage of flat menu, is that true? If not, what else? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time
Pen interface is that the commercial application Sony's EyeToy used, is that true? If not, what else? | Gesture
QWERTY means name of a equipment, is that true? If not, what else? | Name of keyboard
Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use color-based, is that true? If not, what else? | Sensor-based
Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use sensor-based | TRUE
Tangible interfaces are NOT type of interaction and they use sensor-based | FALSE
QWERTY means name of a keyboard | TRUE
QWERTY NOT means name of a keyboard | FALSE
Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time is advantage of flat menu | TRUE
Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time is NOT advantage of flat menu | FALSE
Interface type in 1980s included command and WIMP/GUI | TRUE
Interface type in 1980s NOT included command and WIMP/GUI | FALSE
Paradigms defines | A particular approach that has been adopted by a community in terms of shared assumptions, concepts, values and practices
Windows interfaces can be | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse
Four key issues of data gathering are setting goals, Relationship with participants, Triangulation, Semi-structure studies, is that true? If not, what else? | Setting goals, Relationship with participants, Triangulation, Pilot studies
Closed questions have no predetermined format, is that true? If not, what else? | A predetermined answer format, e.g., 'yes' or 'no'
Unstructured interviews are not directed by a script, is that true? If not, what else? | Not directed by a script
Structured interviews are rich but not replicable, is that true? If not, what else? | Tightly scripted
Semi-structured interviews are replicable but may lack richness, is that true? If not, what else? | Good balance between richness and replicability
Open questions have predetermined answer format, e.g., 'yes' or 'no', is that true? If not, what else? | No predetermined format
Running the interview should be intro, explain the goals, main body, and closure, is that true? If not, what else? | Intro, warm-up, main body, and closure
Encouraging a good response should be ensure questionnaire is well designed, is that true? If not, what else? | All of answers
Advantages of online questionnaires are copying and postage costs, is that true? If not, what else? | Responses are usually received quickly
Problems with online questionnaires preventing individuals from responding more than two, is that true? If not, what else? | Individuals have also been known to change questions in email questionnaires
Ethnography is vary along a scale from 'outside' to 'inside', is that true? If not, what else? | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews
Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on participants, is that true? If not, what else? | All of the answers
There are 2 key issues in Data gathering, is that true? If not, what else? | 4
Small trial run is pilot study, is that true? If not, what else? | Small trial run
Data calculation result & Information is displayed of experiments: are difference between Data and Information, is that true? If not, what else? | Data is conclusions maybe drawn, Information is the result of analyzing and interpreting data
Audio recording, taking photographs and video recording are common form of data recording, is that true? If not, what else? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording
there are 6 form main types of interviews, is that true? If not, what else? | 4
There are three main types of Data gathering, what are they? | Interviews, questionaires, and observation
Random is one of the types of interviews, is that true? If not, what else? | Structured
Alice is the intelligent agent that guides visitor to the website Agentland, is that true? If not, what else? | Cybelle
Money is what they enrich the interview experience, is that true? If not, what else? | Props
Random and semantic are two main rating scales, is that true? If not, what else? | Likert and semantic
Structured is one of the types of interviews, is that true? If not, what else? | Structured
Observation is one of the types of interviews, is that true? If not, what else? | Structured
Questionaired is one of the types of interviews, is that true? If not, what else? | Structured
Quantitative data is expressed the nature of elements, is that true? If not, what else? | Expressed as numbers
Qualitative data is expressed as numbers, is that true? If not, what else? | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers
Simple quantitative analysis should be semi-structured, is that true? If not, what else? | Graphical representations
Simple qualitative analysis should be averages, is that true? If not, what else? | Semi-structured
Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is retributed Cognition, is that true? If not, what else? | Grounded Theory
Grounded Theory is used for analyzing collaborative work, is that true? If not, what else? | Aims to derive theory from systematic analysis of data
Activity Theory is used for analyzing collaborative work, is that true? If not, what else? | Explains human behaviorin terms of our practical activity with the world
Distributed Cognition are models the mediating role of artifacts, is that true? If not, what else? | Used for analyzing collaborative work
The best way to present your findings depends on the audience, the presentation, the data gathering and analysis undertaken, is that true? If not, what else? | The audience, the purpose, the data gathering and analysis undertaken
Presentation of the findings should overstate the evidence | FALSE
Enable you to be able to analyze data gathered from observation studies is not one of true main aim of the Chapter 8, is that true? If not, what else? | Enable you to be able to analyze data gathered from ethnographys
4 is median value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9), is that true? If not, what else? | 7
7 is mode value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9), is that true? If not, what else? | 8
8.89 is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9), is that true? If not, what else? | 6.89
there are 4 types of qualitive analysis that we discuss in Simple qualitative analysis, is that true? If not, what else? | 3
there are 3 frameworks do we use in the analysis of qualitative data, is that true? If not, what else? | 3
SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis boxes, is that true? If not, what else? | packages
They use three theorical frameworks, including grounded theory, field study, and activity theory, is that true? If not, what else? | Grounded theory, distributed cognition, and activity theory
Selective coding is NOT one of the approach to analysis in the Grounded theory, is that true? If not, what else? | Formative coding
Distributed cognition approach is introduce in Chapter 1, is that true? If not, what else? | Chapter 3
Chapter 8 NOT discuss about Data analysis, interpretation and presentation? | FALSE
It is sometime assumed that certain forms of data gathering will NOT result in quantitative data and others will only result in qualitative data? | TRUE
CASE STUDY 8.1 NOT uses ethnographic data to understand Idian ATM usage? | FALSE
Data in the qualitative data is NOT more difficult to measure than quantitative data | FALSE
Activity theory (AT) is a product of Soviet psychology | TRUE
User-centered approach is based on later focus on users and tasks, is that true? If not, what else? | Empirical measurement
Four basic activities in Interaction Design are: Building needs, Verify alternative designs, Developing interactive versions, Evaluating designs, is that true? If not, what else? | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs
Those who receive output from the product are the users/stakeholders, is that true? If not, what else? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary
The primary in stakeholders means the who is frequent hands-on, is that true? If not, what else? | The who is frequent hands-on
The secondary in stakeholders means who is occasional or via someone else, is that true? If not, what else? | The who is occasional or via someone else
The tertiary in stakeholders means who is occasional or via someone else, is that true? If not, what else? | The who is affected by its introduction
Three principles of User-centered design are on time focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design, is that true? If not, what else? | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design
Usability engineering lifecycle model defines: from top to down engineering, is that true? If not, what else? | Stages of identifying requirements, designing, evaluating, prototyping
The Star lifecycle model defines iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated, is that true? If not, what else? | No particular ordering of activities; development may start in any one
Spiral Lifecycle model defines iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated, is that true? If not, what else? | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated
Traditional 'waterfall' lifecycle defines iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated, is that true? If not, what else? | From top to down engineering
Generating alternatives is NOT a key principle in most design disciplines | FALSE
The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that NOT captures a set of activities and how they are related | FALSE
RAD is stand for Rare Application Development? | FALSE
Spiral model is NOT developed by Barry Boehm? | FALSE
Workshops are used in develop JAD model? | TRUE
Evaluating the design is NOT one of three fundamental activities that are recognized in all design, is that true? If not, what else? | Measure the design
Review is NOT one of the seven secrets that Kelley (2001) describles for better brainstorms, is that true? If not, what else? | Review
Easy for coding is value of prototype in design, is that true? If not, what else? | Effective role playing exercise
Because of satisfying users, we need to involve users in interaction design, is that true? If not, what else? | get realistic expectations, no surprises, no disaspointment
Tester is involved in Interaction Design, is that true? If not, what else? | Process
there are 3 degrees of user involvement, is that true? If not, what else? | 4
Onsite working is NOT one of steps in user-centered approach, is that true? If not, what else? | Onsite working
there are 3 basic activities in Interaction Design, is that true? If not, what else? | 4
Three categories of user including: primary, secondary, and the last, is that true? If not, what else? | Primary, secondary, and tertiary
The term lifecycle model used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related, is that true? If not, what else? | activities and how they are related
Waterfall is NOT one of the lifecyle models in software engineering, is that true? If not, what else? | Star
Waterfall lifecycle model including 5 steps, is that true? If not, what else? | 5 steps
Star lifecycle model was proposed by Hartson and Hix in 80s, is that true? If not, what else? | 1980s
Usability Engineering Lifecycle was proposed by Hartson and Hix, is that true? If not, what else? | Deborah Meyhew
CMM international standard is used in HCI, is that true? If not, what else? | ISO13407
In requirement design, task analysis focus on articulating existing and envisioned work practices, is that true? If not, what else? | Use mainly to investigate an existing situation
In requirement design, scenarios focus on initially interpretation before deeper analysis, is that true? If not, what else? | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.
In requirement design, use cases focus on articulating existing and envisioned work practices, is that true? If not, what else? | Use mainly to investigate an existing situation
In requirement design, data interpretation focus on articulating existing and envisioned work practices, is that true? If not, what else? | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis
Different approaches emphasize different elements e.g. class diagrams for non-object-oriented systems, entity-relationship diagrams for data intensive systems | FALSE
Different data interpretation approaches emphasize difference elements | TRUE
Non-functional requirement is what the system should do, is that true? If not, what else? | What response time system should be?
Functional requirement is how beautiful enough of GUI need to be, is that true? If not, what else? | What the system should do
Getting requirements right is crucial, is that true? If not, what else? | crucial
Two different kinds of traditional requirements are functional and non-functional, is that true? If not, what else? | functional and non-functional
Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments: physical, ideology, organisation, and technical environment, is that true? If not, what else? | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment
Data requirements capture the required data of type, volatility, size/amount, accuracy and value, is that true? If not, what else? | type, volatility, size/amount, persistence, accuracy and value
Environmental requirements or context of use include the aspects of social, organizational and technical environment, is that true? If not, what else? | physical, social, organizational and technical environment
UnderseaGrip device WetPC company created for undersea divers, is that true? If not, what else? | KordGrip
Capture user characteristic is not True of Personas, is that true? If not, what else? | Not real people, but synthesised from real user characteristics
Geert Hofstede, management theorist identified "dimensions' of national culture including living distance, idividualism,masculinity - femininity, and uncertainty avoidance, is that true? If not, what else? | power distance, idividualism,masculinity - femininity, and uncertainty avoidance
Usability goals include efficiency, safety, utility, learnability, and memorability, is that true? If not, what else? | effectiveness, efficiency, safety, utility, learnability, and memorability
Data gathering for requirement including: interview, observation, and studying documentation, is that true? If not, what else? | Interview, questionaire, observation, and studying documentation
Functional requirements capture what the product should NOT do? | FALSE
Data requirements capture the type, volality, size/amount, persistence, accuracy, and value of the non-required data? | FALSE
Environmental requirements or context of use refer to the circumstances in which the interative product will be NOT expected to operate? | FALSE
User characteristics capture the normal attributes of the intended user group | FALSE
Usability and user experience goals should be separated with appropriate measures | FALSE
Data gathering for requirement including: Interview, questionaire, and studying documentation | FALSE
Data gathering for requirement including: Interview, questionaire, observation, and studying documentation | TRUE
Data gathering for requirement including: Interview, questionaire, observation, prototype and studying documentation | FALSE
Usability goals include effectiveness, efficiency, safety, utility, learnability, and memorability | TRUE
There are two types of design: Social and physical model, is that true? If not, what else? | Conceptual and physical model
Prototype has two kinds: Imprtant and non-important, is that true? If not, what else? | Low and high fidelity
You can test out ideas for yourself is not TRUE in why we use prototype, is that true? If not, what else? | Help to create lifecycle model
Low fidelity prototyping may be paper and cardboard, is that true? If not, what else? | Paper and cardboard
Some attributes of prototype may be expensive and complex, is that true? If not, what else? | Simple, cheap, and quick to produce
High fidelity prototyping uses materials that you would expect to be in Requirement, is that true? If not, what else? | Final product
A software protoype can set expectations too high is NOT problem of high-fidelity, is that true? If not, what else? | Easy to develop
One of the dangers of producing running prototypes is: Manager like it, is that true? If not, what else? | User may believe that the prototype is the system
Receive from Customer is TRUE in Conceptual design, is that true? If not, what else? | Transform from user requirements/needs
Researchers at Berkerley (Newman et al.,2003) have been developing a tool to support the informal sketching and prototyping of websites called SKETCH, is that true? If not, what else? | DENIM
Use low-fidelity prototyping to get rapid feedback is NOT key guiding principle of conceptual design, is that true? If not, what else? | Move to a solution too quickly
Steps designer have to do immediately after constructing conceptual model is considering interface types, is that true? If not, what else? | Considering interaction types
There are two types of prototype including: low fidelity and high fidelity prototype, is that true? If not, what else? | TRUE
Two common compromises of prototype including high and low prototype | FALSE
Two common compromises of prototype including longterm and shortterm prototype | FALSE
A low fidelity prototype is NOT one that look like very much like the final product | TRUE
High fidelity prototyping uses materials that you would NOT expect to be in the final product | FALSE
Compromises in prototyping can be | vertical & horizontal
What is a prototype? | all the answers
a storyboard is a prototype | TRUE
Why prototype | all the answers
Evaluation and feedback are central to interaction design is the cause of why prototyping | TRUE
Evaluation and feedback are central to interaction design is NOT the cause of why prototyping | FALSE
Low-fidelity Prototyping is | all the answers
Low-fidelity Prototyping is evaluation and feedback are central to interaction design | FALSE
Usability testing NOT involves measuring typical user's performance on typical task | FALSE
The three main evaluation approaches are NOT included: usability testing, field studies, and analytical evaluation | FALSE
Walkthroughs, as the name suggests, involve user in walking through scenarios with prototypes of the application | TRUE
There are 5 evaluation case studies in chapter 12 | FALSE
The main methods used in evaluation are: observing users, asking users their opinions and asking experts their opinions | FALSE
Awareness is NOT one of the evaluation approachs, is that true? If not, what else? | Awareness
To check that developer can design the product is why we have to evaluate, is that true? If not, what else? | To check that users can use the product and that they like it
Testing the size of the keys on the cell phone can be done in a school, is that true? If not, what else? | laboratory
Depend on the interface of product itself, we implement evaluation, is that true? If not, what else? | Depend on the type of product itself
Analytical evaluation is an approach that include: Heuristic evaluation, field study, and modeling, is that true? If not, what else? | Heuristic evaluation, walkthroughs, and modeling
Designers controlling experiment, is a study that is performed in a laboratory, is that true? If not, what else? | Evaluator
Field study is a study that is done in a laboratory, is that true? If not, what else? | Natural environment
Formative evaluation, an evaluation to check that the product continues to meet user's need is done during testing, is that true? If not, what else? | Design
Usability testing was the dominant evaluation approach in the 70s, is that true? If not, what else? | 1980s
Usability laboratory is a laboratory that is designed for usability testing, is that true? If not, what else? | Usability testing
Usability laboratory is a laboratory that is designed for usability testing | TRUE
Usability laboratory is a laboratory that is designed for formative evaluation | FALSE
Formative evaluation, an evaluation to check that the product continues to meet user's need is done during testing | FALSE
Formative evaluation, an evaluation to check that the product continues to meet user's need is done during designing | TRUE
Field study is a study that is done in a laboratory | FALSE
Field study is a study that is done in a natural environment | TRUE
Evaluation & design are closely integrated in user-centered design. | TRUE
Evaluation & design are | closely integrated in user-centered design.
Different evaluation approaches and methods are often combined in | one study
there are 6 steps in DECIDE framework help you plan your evaluation studies and to reminde you about the issues you need to think about, is that true? If not, what else? | 6
What is one of the steps of DECIDE framework? | Determine the goals
What does Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) provided for professionals to deal with their issues? | Ethical code
What is the first step of DECIDE framework? | Determine the goals
What is the second step of DECIDE framework? | Explore the questions
What is the third step of DECIDE framework? | Choose the evaluation approachand methods
What is the fourth step of DECIDE framework? | Identify the practical issues
What is the fifth step of DECIDE framework? | Decide how to deal with the ethical issues
What is the sixth step of DECIDE framework? | Evaluate, analyze, interpret and present the data
the sixth step of DECIDE framework is to explore the questions | FALSE
the fifth step of DECIDE framework is to decide how to deal with the ethical issues | TRUE
the fourth step of DECIDE framework is to identify the practical issues | TRUE
the fourth step of DECIDE framework is to explore the questions | FALSE
the third step of DECIDE framework is to explore the questions | FALSE
the second step of DECIDE framework is to aim the object | FALSE
the goal of DECIDE framework is | Evaluate, analyze, interpret and present the data
Choose the DECIDE evaluation approach & methods for | all the answers
There are many issues to consider before conducting an evaluation study | TRUE
There are less issues to consider before conducting an evaluation study | FALSE
The DECIDE framework provides a useful checklist for planning an evaluation study | TRUE
The DECIDE framework provides a useful checklist for planning an estimation | FALSE
The DECIDE framework provides a useful checklist for lab and checking work progress | FALSE
The second step of DECIDE framework points to | Identify the practical issues
The first step of DECIDE framework points to | Determine the goals
The third step of DECIDE framework points to | Choose the evaluation approach and methods
There are three types of experimental design | different-same-matched participants
Testing is a central part of usability testing | TRUE
Usability testing is done in controlled conditions | TRUE
Usability testing is an adapted form of experimentation | TRUE
Experiments aim to test hypotheses by manipulating certain variables while keeping others constant | TRUE
The experimenter controls the independent variable(s) but not the dependent variable(s). | TRUE
There are three types of experimental design: different- participants, same-participants, & matched participants | TRUE
Field studies are done in natural environments | TRUE
Typically observation and interviews are used to collect field studies data | TRUE
Categorization and theory-based techniques are used to analyze the data. | TRUE
Typically observation and interviews are | used to collect field studies data
Categorization and theory-based techniques are used to analyze the data. | analyze the data
The experimenter controls the independent variable(s) but not | the dependent variable(s).
Experiments aim to test hypotheses by manipulating certain variables while keeping others constant | manipulating certain variables while keeping others constant
Usability testing is an adapted form of experimentation | adapted form of expertises
Usability testing is done in controlled conditions | controlled conditions
Field studies are done in natural environments | natural environments
There are four types of experimental design, that's true | FALSE
The aim of field study | is to understand what users do naturally and how technology impacts them.
Field studies can be used in product design to | all the answers
Advantages of same participant design | Few individuals, no individual differences
Advantages of diff participant design | No order effects
Advantages of matched participant design | Same as different participants but individual differences reduced
Disadvantages of matched participant design | Cannot be sure of perfect matching on all differences
Expert evaluation: | heuristic & walkthroughs
Predictive models are used to evaluate systems with predictable tasks such as telephones | TRUE
GOMS, Keystroke Level Model, & Fitts'Law predict expert, error-free performance | TRUE
Heuristic evaluation relatively easy to learn | TRUE
Expert evaluation: heuristic & walkthroughs | TRUE
Fitts'Law predicts that the time to point at an object using a device is | function of the distance from the target object & the object's size
The further away & the ... the object, the longer the time to locate it and point to it. | smaller
Fitts'Law is useful for evaluating systems for which ... to locate an object is important, e.g., a cell phone, a handheld devices | the time
The keystroke model allows .. to be made about how long it takes an expert user to perform a task | predictions
Predictive models is | less expensive than user testing
Predictive models is less expensive than user testing | TRUE
Predictive models provide a way of evaluating products or designs without directly involving users | TRUE
Predictive models is usefulless limited to systems with predictable tasks -e.g., telephone answering systems, mobiles, cell phones, etc | FALSE
there is managed discussion that leads to agreed decisions in Pluralistic walkthrough | TRUE
Performed by anyone in Pluralistic walkthrough | FALSE
Pluralistic walkthrough calls: Variation on the cognitive walkthrough theme. | TRUE
Pluralistic walkthrough lends itself well to participatory design | TRUE
Pluralistic walkthrough had it lent well to participatory design | FALSE
Cognitive walkthroughs focus on | designer presents an aspect of the design & usage scenarios
Cognitive walkthroughs experts focus on | is told the assumptions about user population, context of use, task details
Cognitive walkthroughs are guided by ... questions | 3
Cognitive walkthroughs are guided by these questions | Will the correct action be sufficiently evident to the user?
Cognitive walkthroughs are guided by the third question | Will the user associate and interpret the response from the action correctly?
Cognitive walkthroughs are guided by the first question | Will the correct action be sufficiently evident to the user?
Cognitive walkthroughs are guided by the second question | Will the user notice that the correct action is available?
Use techniques that make standout like colour,ordering,spacing,underlining,sequencing and animation,is designed for... | Attention
Diversity of techniques now used to change what they do or think,is found in... | Perception
Multidisciplinary teams strong to communicate and progress forward the designs being create | TRUE
A fundamental aspect of interaction design is to develop? | Conceptual model
User interact system, but developer is responding to output rather than the system is... | Wizard of Oz
Conversations are supported in real-time through voice and/or typing can be found in... | Synchronous computer-mediated communication
In evaluating, is it measuring what you expected?is... | Validity
...have therapeutic qualities,being able to reduce stress and loneliness | Robots interface
Interface metaphors are commonly used as part of? | Conceptual model
Optimizing the interaction between users and interactive products require taking into account a number of interdependent factors,including... | Cultural differences,User groups,Feedback
Sampling can be a problem when the size of a population is unknown as is common online,is issue of... | Questionnarie
Experiments for research is not completely replicable | FALSE
As Winograd(1997),HCI means | The design of spaces for human communication and interaction
USABILITY for research is not completely replicable | TRUE
In evaluating,the environment influencing the findings is... | Ecological validity
...immerse themselves in the culture that they study | Ethnographers
Figure that appears most often in the data is called... | Mode
Sketches of screens,task sequences and 'Post-it' notes are... | Low-fidelity Prototyping
Danger that users think they have a full system is... | high-fidelity
The kind of coupling to use between the physical action and digital effect,is issue of... | Tangible interface
When problems are found in user testing, fix them and carry out more tests is found in... | User-centered analysis
Individuals have also been known to change questions,is issue of... | Questionnarie
Users' reactions and performance to scenarios,manuals,simulations & prototypes are observed,recorded and analysed | TRUE
Make first questions easy and non-threatening,is step of... | Interview
Usability means easy to... | learn
Designing interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday and working lives | TRUE
What kinds of data need to be stored?is... | Data req
Debriering session in which experts work together to prioritize problems in...step of heuristic evaluation | 3
...is cognitive | Interacting with technology
Four categories of user(Eason,1987) | FALSE
Overhearing and overseeing-allows tracking of what others are doing without explicit cues,is found in... | Awareness
Replicable but may lack richness is found in... | Structured qualitative analysis
Guide those who are vague or ambiguous in their requests for information or services,is issue of... | Speech interface
In evaluating,can the study be replicated?is... | Reliability
Add up values and divide by number of data points is called... | mean
Having a good understanding of the problem space can help inform the product | TRUE
...disciplines contributing to ID | Ergonomics
simulations & prototypes are observed,recorded and analysed is found in... | user-centered quantitative analysis
Dancing butter,drinks,breakfast cereals,is known as... | Anthropomorphism
Especially for those with poor manual dexterity or 'fat' fingers,is issue of... | Mobile interface
...provide a way of conceptualizing emotional and pleasurable aspect of interaction design | Models of affect
How will they be stored(e.g.database)?is... | Data req
Experiments test is... | Discover new knowledge by investigating the relationship between two or more things
Expert is told the assumptions about user population,context of use,task detail is... | Cognitive walkthroughs
Requirements arise from understanding users' needs is... | Why 'establish' req
In evaluating,can the findings be generalized?is... | Scope
Sounds should be audible and ... in cognition | Distinguishable
Observation may be...,in the field or in controlled setting | direct and indirect
Middle value of data when ranked is called... | Median
How fast will they be stored(e.g.database)?is... | Non-functional req
What to prototype? | Technical issues
The mappings between the ... and the user experience the product is designed to support | Concepts
Memory involves 2 processes... | Recall-directed and recognition-based
Major metaphors and analogies that are used to convey how to understand | what a product is for and how to use it for an activity
Concepts that users are exposed to through the | product
The mappings between the concepts and the user experience | the product is designed to support
It was simple, clear, and obvious to the users how to use the | application and what it could do
Can be innovative and enable the realm of computers and their applications | to be made more accessible to a greater diversity of users
Allows users, especially novices and technophobes, to interact | with the system in a way that is familiar
issuing commands using keyboard and function keys and selecting options via menus | Instructing
interacting with the system as if having a conversation | Conversing
interacting with objects in a virtual or physical space by manipulating them | Manipulating
moving through a virtual environment or a physical space | Exploring
Designers can inadvertently use bad existing designs | and transfer the bad parts over -Problems with interface metaphors
Limits designers imagination in | coming up with new conceptual models - Problems with interface metaphors
Forces users to only | understand the system in terms of the metaphor -Problems with interface metaphors
Conflict with design principles | Conflict with design principles- Problems with interface metaphors
Can constrain designers in the way they conceptualize | problem space- Problems with interface metaphors
Break conventional and | cultural rules
Got the computer to perform a range of different calculations and recalculations | in response to user input
Designed to be similar to a physical entity but | also has own properties - Interface metaphors
Exploit user's familiar knowledge, helping | them to understand 'the unfamiliar' - Interface metaphors
Conjures up the essence of the unfamiliar activity, enabling users to leverage | of this to understand more aspects of the unfamiliar functionality - Interface metaphors
People find it easier to learn and talk about what they are doing at the | computer interface in terms familiar to them - Interface metaphors
Makes learning | new systems easier -Benefits of interface metaphors
Helps users understand the | underlying conceptual model -Benefits of interface metaphors
Can be innovative and enable the realm of computers and their applications | to be made more accessible to a greater diversity of users -Benefits of interface metaphors
Proposes that digital objects be designed so they can be interacted with | analogous to how physical objects are manipulated
Assumes that direct manipulation interfaces enable users to feel that they are directly | controlling the digital objects
Continuous representation of objects and | actions of interest- Core principles of DM
Physical actions and button pressing instead of | issuing commands with complex syntax- Core principles of DM
Rapid reversible actions with immediate feedback on | object of interest- Core principles of DM
Some people take the metaphor of direct | manipulation too literally- disadvantageswith DM
Not all tasks can be described by objects and | not all actions can be done directly- disadvantageswith DM
Some tasks are better achieved through | delegating rather than manipulating- disadvantageswith DM
Moving a mouse around the screen can be | slower than pressing function keys to do same actions- disadvantageswith DM
Marble answering machine (Bishop,1995) | Good design
Based on how everyday objects behave | Good design
Easy, intuitive and a pleasure to use | Good design
Only requires onestep actions to perform core tasks | Good design
Need to take into account: | Who the users are. What activities are being carried out,  Where the interaction is taking place- What to design
Need to optimize the interactions users have with a product | So that they match the users' activities and needs- What to design
Need to take into account | what people are good and bad at- Understanding users' needs
Consider what might | help people in the way they currently do things- Understanding users' needs
Think through | what might provide quality user experiences- Understanding users' needs
Listen to | what people want and get them involved- Understanding users' needs
Use tried and tested | user-centered methods- Understanding users' needs
Designing interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday and working lives | Sharp, Rogers and Preece (2007)
The design of spaces for human communication and interaction | Winograd (1997)
Develop usable products | Usability means easy to learn, effective to use and provide an enjoyable experience- Goals of interaction design
Involve users | in the design process- Goals of interaction design

what is being designed, e.g., | user interface design, software design, user-centered design, product design, web design, experience design (UX)
Interaction design is the umbrella term covering all of these aspects | fundamental to all disciplines, fields, and approaches concerned with researching and designing computerbased systems for people
Academic disciplines contributing to ID | Psychology, Social Sciences, Computing Sciences, Engineering, Ergonomics, Informatics
Design practices contributing to ID: | Graphic design. Product design, Artist-design, Industrial design, Film industry
Interdisciplinary fields that 'do' interaction design: | HCI, Human Factors, Cognitive Engineering, Cognitive Ergonomics, Computer Supported Co-operative Work, Information Systems
Many people from | different backgrounds involved- Working in multidisciplinaryteams
Different perspectives and ways | of seeing and talking about things- Working in multidisciplinaryteams
Benefits | more ideas and designs generated- Working in multidisciplinaryteams
Disadvantages | difficult to communicate and progress forward the designs being create- Working in multidisciplinaryteams
Nielsen Norman Group: | help companies enter the age of the consumer, designing human-centered products and services
Cooper: | From research and product to goal-related
Swim: | provides a wide range of design services, in each case targeted to address the product development needs at hand
IDEO: | creates products, services and environments for companies pioneering new ways to provide value to their customers
interaction designers | people involved in the design of allthe interactive aspects of a product
usability engineers | people who focus on evaluatingproducts, using usability methods and principles
web designers | people who develop and create the visual design of websites, such as layouts
information architects | people who come up with ideas of how to plan and structure interactive products
user experience designers (UX) | people who do all the above but who may also carry out field studies to inform the design of products
Identifying needs and | establishing requirements for the user experience- What is involved in the processof interaction design
Building interactive prototypes that | can be communicated and assessed- What is involved in the processof interaction design
Evaluating what is being built throughout the process | and the user experience it offers- What is involved in the processof interaction design
Users should be | involved through the development of the project- Core characteristics of interaction design
Specific usability and user experience goals need to be | identified, clearly documented and agreed at the beginning of the project- Core characteristics of interaction design
Iteration is needed | through the core activities- Core characteristics of interaction design
understand how to design interactive products that | fit with what people want, need and may desire- Why go to this length
appreciate that one size does not fit all | e.g., teenagers are very different to grown-ups
identify any incorrect assumptions they may have about particular user groups | e.g., not all old people want or need big fonts
be aware of | both people's sensitivities and their capabilities
Usability goals | Effective to use, Efficient to use, Safe to use,Have good utility, Easy to learn, Easy to remember how to use
Selecting terms to convey a person's feelings, emotions, etc., can help designers understand the multifaceted nature of the user experience | Usability and user experience goals
Generalizable abstractions for | thinking about different aspects of design- Design principles
The do's and don'ts of | interaction design- Design principles
What to provide and what not to | provide at the interface- Design principles
Derived from a mix of | theory-based knowledge, experience and common-sense- Design principles
Sending information back to the user about | what has been done- Feedback
Includes | sound, highlighting, animation and combinations of these- Feedback
Restricting the possible actions that | can be performed- Constraints
Helps prevent user from | selecting incorrect options- Constraints
Physical objects can be | designed to constrain things- Constraints
Design interfaces to have similar operations | and use similar elements for similar tasks- Consistency
always use ctrl key plus first initial of the command for an operation | ctrl+C, ctrl+S, ctrl+O - Consistency
Main benefit is consistent interfaces are | easier to learn and use- Consistency
When consistency breaks down | Have to find other initials or combinations of keys, thereby breaking the consistency rule - e.g. ctrl+S, ctrl+Sp, ctrl+shift+L
Increases learning burden on user, making them more prone to errors | When consistency breaks down
Internal consistency refers to designing operations to behave the same within an application | Difficult to achieve with complex interfaces
External consistency refers to designing operations, interfaces, etc., to be the same across applications and devices | Very rarely the case, based on different designer's preference
Refers to an attribute of an object that allows people to know how to use it | a mouse button invites pushing, a door handle affords pulling- Affordances
Norman (1988) | used the term to discuss the design of everyday objects- Affordances
Since has been much popularised in interaction design to discuss how to design interface objects | scrollbars to afford moving up and down, icons to afford clicking on- Affordances
Interfaces are virtual and do not have affordances like | physical objects- What does 'affordance' have tooffer interaction design
Norman argues it does not make sense to talk about interfaces in | terms of 'real' affordances- What does 'affordance' have tooffer interaction design
Instead interfaces are better conceptualized as 'perceived' affordances | Learned conventions of arbitrary mappings between action and effect at the interface, Some mappings are better than others
Similar to | design principles, except more prescriptive- Usability principles
Used mainly as the | basis for evaluating systems- Usability principles
Provide a framework for | heuristic evaluation- Usability principles
Usability principles (Nielsen 2001) Visibility of system status, Match between system and the real world | User control and freedom, Consistency and standards, Help users recognize, diagnose and recover from errors, Error prevention, Recognition rather than recall, Flexibility and efficiency of use, Aesthetic and minimalist design, Help and documentation
Interaction design is | concerned with designing interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday and working lives
It is concerned | with how to create quality user experiences
It requires taking into | account a number of interdependent factors, including context of use, type of activities,cultural differences, and user groups
It is | multidisciplinary, involving many inputs from wide-reaching disciplines and fields
HCI has moved | beyond designing interfaces for desktop machines
Concerned with extending and | supporting all manner of human activities
Designing for user experiences, including: Making work effective, efficient and safer, | Improving and enhancing learning and training, Providing enjoyable andexciting entertainment, Enhancing communication and understanding, Supporting new forms of creativity and expression
Able to capitalize on the hugely successful phenomenon | of blogging - Assumptions
Just as people like toblog so will they want to share | with the rest of the world their photo collections and get comments back- Assumptions
People like to share their | photos with the rest of the world- Assumptions
From Flickr's website (2005): "is almost certainly the best online photo management and sharing application in the world" | A claim
Having a good understanding of the problem space can help inform the design space | what kind of interface, behavior, functionality to provide- From problem space to design space
But before | deciding upon these it is important to develop a conceptual model- From problem space to design space
Need to first think about how the system will | appear to users (i.e. how they will understand it)- conceptual model
A conceptual model is: | a high-level description of how a system isorganized and operates. (Johnson andHenderson, 2002, p. 26)
Not a description of the user interface but a | structure outlining the concepts and the relationships between them- What is and why need a conceptual model
Why not start with the nuts and bolts of design | Architects and interior designers would not think about which color curtains to have before deciding where the windows will beplaced in a new building
Why not start with the nuts and bolts of design | Enables "designers to straighten out their thinking before they start laying out their widgets"
Why not start with the nuts and bolts of design | Provides a working strategy and a framework of general concepts and their interrelations
Orient themselves towards asking | questions about how the conceptual model will be understood by users- Helps the design team
Not to become narrowly focused | early on- Helps the design team
Establish a set | of common terms they all understand and agree upon- Helps the design team
Reduce the chance of | misunderstandings and confusion arising later on- Helps the design team
Designed to be similar to a physical entity but also has own properties | desktop metaphor, search engine- Interface metaphors
Exploit user's familiar knowledge, helping them | to understand 'the unfamiliar'- Interface metaphors
Conjures up the essence of the unfamiliar activity, enabling users to | leverage of this to understand more aspects of the unfamiliar functionality- Interface metaphors
People find it easier to learn and talk about what they are doing at the | computer interface in terms familiar to them- Interface metaphors
Makes learning new systems easier | Benefits of interface metaphors
Helps users understand the underlying conceptual model | Benefits of interface metaphors
Can be innovative and enable the realm of computers and their applications to be made more accessible to a greater diversity of users | Benefits of interface metaphors
Break conventional and cultural rules | recycle bin placed on desktop- Problems with interface metaphors (Nelson, 1990)
Can constrain designers | in the way they conceptualize a problem space- Problems with interface metaphors (Nelson, 1990)
Conflict with | design principles- Problems with interface metaphors (Nelson, 1990)
Forces users to only understand | the system in terms of the metaphor- Problems with interface metaphors (Nelson, 1990)
Limits designers' imagination in coming up with | new conceptual models- Problems with interface metaphors (Nelson, 1990)
Instructing | issuing commands using keyboard and function keys and selecting options via menus
Conversing | interacting with the system as if having a conversation
Manipulating | interacting with objects in a virtual or physical space by manipulating them
Exploring | moving through a virtual environment or a physical space
Where users instruct a system by telling it what to do | tell the time, print a file, find a photo- Instructing
Very common interaction type underlying a range of | devices and systems- Instructing
A main benefit of instructing is to support quick and efficient interaction | good for repetitive kinds of actions performed on multiple objects- Instructing
Allows users, especially novices and technophobes, to interact with the system in a way that is familiar | makes them feel comfortable, at ease and less scared- pros of conversational model
Misunderstandings can arise when the system does not know how to parse what the user says | cons of conversational model
Exploit's users' knowledge of how they | move and manipulate in the physical world- Manipulating
Virtual objects can be manipulated by | moving, selecting, opening, and closing them- Manipulating
Tagged physical objects (e.g., bricks, blocks) that are manipulated in a physical world (e.g., placed on a surface) | can result in other physical and digital events- Manipulating
Shneiderman (1983) | coined the term Direct Manipulation
Came from his fascination with | computer games at the time- Direct manipulation
Proposes that digital objects be designed so they can be interacted with analogous to | how physical objects are manipulated- Direct manipulation
Assumes that direct manipulation interfaces enable users to feel that | they are directly controlling the digital objects- Direct manipulation
Novices can learn the | basic functionality quickly- Why are DM interfaces so enjoyable
Experienced users can work extremely rapidly to | carry out a wide range of tasks, even defining new functions- Why are DM interfaces so enjoyable
Intermittent users can | retain operational concepts over time- Why are DM interfaces so enjoyable
Error messages | rarely needed- Why are DM interfaces so enjoyable
Users can immediately see if their actions are | furthering their goals and if not do something else- Why are DM interfaces so enjoyable
Users experience | less anxiety- Why are DM interfaces so enjoyable
Users gain confidence and mastery and | feel in control- Why are DM interfaces so enjoyable
Theories, models and frameworks | Are used to inform and inspire design
A theory is | a well-substantiated explanation of some aspect of a phenomenon
A model is | a simplification of some aspect of human'computer interaction intended to make it easier for designers to predict and evaluate alternative designs
A framework is | a set of interrelated concepts and/or a set of specific questions
Theories tend to be | comprehensive, explaining human'computer interactions
Models tend to | simplify some aspect of human'computer interaction
Frameworks tend to be | prescriptive, providing designers with concepts, questions, and principles to consider
Need to have a good understanding of the problem space | specifying what it is you aredoing, why, and how it will support users in the way intended
A conceptual model is ahigh-level description of a product | what users can do with it and the concepts they need to understand how to interact with it
Decisions about conceptual design should be | made before commencing any physical design
Interface metaphors are | commonly used as part of a conceptual model
We need to | take into account cognitive processes involved and cognitive limitations of users
We can provide knowledge about | what users can and cannot be expected to do
Identify and explain the nature and causes of problems users encounter | Why do we need to understand users
Supply theories, modelling tools, guidance and methods that can | lead to the design of better interactive products
Core cognitive aspects | Attention, Perception and recognition, Memory, Reading, speaking and listening, Problem-solving, planning, reasoning and decision-making, learning
Core cognitive aspects | Most relevant to interaction design are attention,perception and recognition, and memory
Allows us to focus on information that is | relevant to what we are doing- Attention
Involves audio and/or visual senses | Attention
Selecting things to concentrate on at a point | in time from the mass of stimuli around us- Attention
Focussed and divided attention enables us to be | selective in terms of the mass of competing stimuli but limits our ability to keep track of all events- Attention
Information at the interface should be structured to capture users' attention | e.g. use perceptual boundaries (windows),colour, reverse video, sound and flashing lights- Attention
Tullis (1987) | found that the two screens produced quite different results
Make information salient | when it needs attending to-Design implications for attention
Use techniques that make things stand out | like colour, ordering, spacing, underlining, sequencing and animation-Design implications for attention
Avoid cluttering the | interface - follow the google.com example of crisp, simple design-Design implications for attention
Avoid using too much because | the software allows it-Design implications for attention
Representations of information need to be | designed to be perceptible and recognizable- Design implications
Icons and other graphical representations should enable | users to readily distinguish their meaning- Design implications
Bordering and spacing are | effective visual ways of grouping information- Design implications
Sounds should be | audible and distinguishable- Design implications
Speech output should enable | users to distinguish between the set of spoken words- Design implications
Text should be | legible and distinguishable from the background- Design implications
Involves first | encoding and then retrieving knowledge- Memory
We don't remember | everything - involves filtering and processing what is attended to - Memory
Context is | important in affecting our memory (i.e., where, when) - Memory
Well known fact that we recognize things much better than being able to recall things | Better at remembering images than words, Why interfaces are largely visual - Memory
Encoding is first stage of memory | determines which information is attended to in the environment and how it is interpreted- Processing in memory
The more attention paid to something | Processing in memory
And the more it is processed in terms of thinking about it and comparing it with other knowledge | Processing in memory
Context affects the extent to | which information can be subsequently retrieved
Sometimes it can be difficult for people to | recall information that was encoded in a different context
Command-based interfaces require users to | recall from memory a name from a possible set of 100s- Recognition versus recall
GUIs provide visually-based options that users need only | browse through until they recognize one- Recognition versus recall
Web browsers, MP3 players, etc., provide lists of visited URLs, song titles etc., | that support recognition memory- Recognition versus recall
Personal information management (PIM) is a growing problem for most users | Who have vast numbers of documents, images, music files, video clips, emails, attachments, bookmarks, etc.,
Major problem is | deciding where and how to save them all, then remembering what they were called and where to find them again
Naming most | common means of encoding them
Memory involves 2 processes | recall-directed and recognition-based scanning
File management systems should be designed to optimize both kinds of memory processes | e.g., Search box and history list
Help users encode files in richer ways | Provide them with ways of saving files using colour, flagging, image, flexible text, time stamping, etc
Don't overload users memories with | complicated procedures for carrying out tasks- Design implications
Design interfaces that | promote recognition rather than recall- Design implications
Provide users with a variety of ways of encoding digital information to | help them remember where they have stored them |  e.g., categories, color, flagging, time stamping- Design implications															
Users develop an understanding of a system through | learning and using it- Mental models
Knowledge is often described as a mental model | How to use the system (what to do next), What to do with unfamiliar systems or unexpected situations (how the system works)- Mental models
People make inferencesusing mental models of | how to carry out tasks- Mental models
Craik (1943) described mental models as | internal constructions of some aspect of the external world enabling predictions to be made- Mental models
Involves unconscious and conscious processes, | where images and analogies are activated- Mental models
Deep versus shallow models | how to drive a car and how it works- Mental models
Many people have erroneous mental models | (Kempton, 1996)
Payne (1991) | did a similar study and found that people frequently resort to analogies to explain how they work
People's accounts greatly varied and | were often ad hoc
Proposes 7 stages of an activity | Establish a goal, Form an intention, Specify an action sequence, Execute an action, Perceive the system state, Interpret the state, Evaluate the system state with respect to the goals and intentions
Human activity does not | proceed in such an orderly and sequential manner
More usual for stages to be | missed, repeated or out of order
Do not always | have a clear goal in mind but react to the world
Theory is only | approximation of what happens and is greatly simplified
Help designers think about | how to help users monitor their actions
The 'gulfs' explicate the gaps that exist | between the user and the interface
The gulf of execution | the distance from the user to the physical system while the second one
The gulf of evaluation | the distance from the physical system to the user
Need to bridge the gulfs in order to reduce the cognitive effort required to | perform a task- The gulfs
Models the information processes of | a user interacting with a computer- Model Human processor(Card et al, 1983)
Predicts which cognitive processes are | involved when a user interacts with a computer- Model Human processor(Card et al, 1983)
Enables calculations to be made of | how long a user will take to carry out a task- Model Human processor(Card et al, 1983)
Concerned with explaining how we interact with external representations | maps, notes, diagrams- External cognition
Diaries, reminders, calendars, notes, shopping lists, to-do lists - written | to remind us of what to do- Externalizing to reduce memory load
Post-its, piles, marked emails - where placed indicates priority of | what to do- Externalizing to reduce memory load
External representations | Remind us that we need to do something (to buy something for mother's day), Remind us of what to do (buy a card), Remind us when to do something (send a card by a certain date)
When a tool is used in conjunction with an external representation | to carry out a computation (e.g. pen and paper)- Computational offloading
Annotation involves modifying existing representations through making marks | crossing off, ticking, underlining- Annotation and cognitive tracing
Cognitive tracing involves externally manipulating items into different orders or structures | playing scrabble, playing cards- Annotation and cognitive tracing
Provide external representations at the interface that | reduce memory load and facilitate computational offloading- Design implication
Concerned with the nature of cognitive phenomena across individuals, artifacts, and internal and external representations | (Hutchins, 1995)-Distributed cognition
Describes these in terms | of propagation across representational state-Distributed cognition
Information is | transformed through different media (computers, displays, paper, heads)-Distributed cognition
The distributed problem-solving that | takes place- What's involved
The role of | verbal and non-verbal behavior- What's involved
The various coordinating mechanisms that are used | (e.g., rules, procedures)- What's involved
The communication that | takes place as the collaborative activity progresses- What's involved
How knowledge is | shared and accessed- What's involved
Cognition involves several processes including | attention, memory, perception and learning
The way an interface is designed can | greatly affect how well users can perceive, attend, learn and remember how to do their tasks
Theoretical frameworks such as mental models and external cognition provide ways of | understanding how and why people interact with products, which can lead to thinking about how to design better products
Various mechanisms and 'rules' are followed when holding a conversation | e.g.mutual greetings- Conversational mechanisms
Sacks et al. (1978) | work on conversation analysis describe three basic rules
Turn-taking used to | coordinate conversation
Back channeling to signal to | continue and following
Much research focus has been on how to | support conversations when people are 'at a distance' from each other-Designing technologies to support conversations
Many applications have been developed | e.g., email, videoconferencing, videophones, computer conferencing, instant messaging, chatrooms-Designing technologies to support conversations
Conversations are | supported in real-time through voice and/or typing
Examples include | video conferencing, VOIP,MUDs and chat
Benefits include(of Synchronous computer mediated communication) | Not having to physically face people may increase shy people's confidence, Allows people to keep abreast of the goings-on in an organization without having to move from their office
Problems(of Synchronous computer mediated communication) | Difficult to establish eye contact with images of others, People can behave badly when behind the mask of an avatar
Communication takes place remotely at | different times
email, newsgroups, texting | (of Asynchronouscomputermediated communication)
Benefits include(of Asynchronouscomputermediated communication): | Read any place any time, Flexible as to how to deal with it, Can make saying things easier
Problems include(of Asynchronouscomputermediated communication): | LAMING!!!, Message overload, False expectations as to when people will reply
When a group of people act or interact together they need to coordinate themselves | e.g., playing football, navigating a ship-Coordination mechanisms
They use: verbal and non-verbal communication, schedules, rules, and conventions, shared external representations | Coordination mechanisms
Talk is central | Verbal and non-verba communication
Non-verbal also used to emphasize and as substitute | e.g., nods, shakes, winks, glances, gestures and hand-raising- Verbal and non-verba communication
Formal meetings | explicit structures such as agendas, memos, and minutes are employed to coordinate the activity- Verbal and non-verba communication
Schedules used to | organize regular activities in large organizations
Formal rules | like the writing of monthly reports enable organizations to maintain order and keep track
Conventions | like keeping quiet in a library, are a form of courtesy to others
Common method used to coordinate collaborative activities, | e.g., checklists, tables, to-do lists- Shared external representations
They can provide external information on -Shared external representations | who is working on what, When it is being worked on,where it is being worked on,when a piece of work is supposed to be finished,whom it goes to next
Involves knowing | who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom- Awareness mechanisms
Peripheral awareness | keeping an eye on things happening in the periphery of vision, Overhearing and overseeing - allows tracking of what others are doingwithout explicit cues
Provide awareness of others | who are in different locations- Designing technologies to support awareness
Users notify others as opposed to being | constantly monitored
Provide information about shared objects and progress of collaborative tasks | Tickertape, Babble
Elvin is | a distributed awareness system that provides a range of client services (Segall and Arnold,1997)
It includes Tickertape, one of the first lightweight messaging systems | Elvin
Social mechanisms, like turn-taking, conventions, etc., | enable us to collaborate and coordinate our activities
Keeping aware of what others are doing and letting others know | what you are doing are important aspects of collaborative working and socialising
Many collaborative technologies systems have been built | to support collaboration
HCI has traditionally been about | designing efficient and effective systems- Affective aspects
Now more about how to design interactive systems that make people respondin certain ways | e.g. to be happy, to be trusting, to learn, to be motivated- Affective aspects
Users have created a range ofemoticonscompensate for lack of expressiveness in text communication: | Happy:),Sad:<,Sick:X,Mad>:,Very angry >:-(- User-created expressiveness
Also use of icons and shorthand in texting and instant messaging has emotional connotations, | e.g.I 12 CU 2NITE-created expressiveness
Marcus (1992) | proposed interfaces for different user groups
Left dialog box was | designed for white American females- Marcus (1992)
Who "prefer a more detailed presentation, curvilinear shapes and the absence of some of the more brutal term... favored by male software engineers." | Marcus (1992)
Right dialog box was designed for | European adult male intellectuals- Marcus (1992)
who like "suave prose, a restrained treatment of information density, and a classical approach to font selection" | Marcus (1992)
Teasley et al (1994) found this not to be true | the European dialog box was preferred by all and was considered most appropriate for all users, round dialog box was strongly disliked by everyone
When an application doesn't work properly or crashes | User frustration
When a system doesn't do what the user wants it to do | User frustration
When a user's expectations are not met | User frustration
When a system does not provide sufficient information to enable the user to know what to do | User frustration
When error messages pop up that are vague, obtuse or condemning | User frustration
When the appearance of an interface is garish, noisy, gimmicky or patronizing | User frustration
When a system requires users to carry out too many steps to perform a task, only to discover a mistake was made earlier and they need to start all over again | User frustration
Amusing to the designer but not the user | e.g.,Clicking on a link to a website only to discover that it is still 'under construction'
Reeves and Naas (1996) | argue that comput should be made to apologize
Web used to deceive people into parting with personal details | e.g. paypal, ebay and won the lottery letters- Phishing and trust
Attributing human-like qualities to inanimate objects | (e.g. cars, computers)- Anthropomorphism
Well known phenomenon in advertising | Dancing butter, drinks, breakfast cereals- Anthropomorphism
Much exploited in human-computer interaction | Make user experience moreenjoyable, more motivating, make people feel atease, reduce anxiety- Anthropomorphism
Reeves and Naas (1996) | found that computers that flatter and praise users in education software programs -> positive impact on them- Evidence to support anthropomorphism
Deceptive, make people feel anxious, inferior or stupid | Criticism of anthropomorphism
Increasingly appearing on our screens | Web agents, characters in videogames, learning companions, wizards, pets, newsreaders, popstars- Virtual characters
Provides a persona that is welcoming, has personality and makes user feel | involved with them- Virtual characters
Lead people into false sense of belief, enticing them to confide personal secrets with chatterbots | (e.g. Alice) -Disadvantages of Virtual characters
Annoying and frustrating | e.g. Clippy- Disadvantages of Virtual characters
Not trustworthy | virtual shop assistants?- Disadvantages of Virtual characters
Believability refers to | the extent to which users come to believe an agent's intentions and personality
Appearance is very important | Are simple cartoon-like characters or more realistic characters, resembling the human form more believable?
Behaviour is very important | How an agent moves, gestures and refers to objects on the screen, Exaggeration of facial expressions and gestures to show underlying emotions (c.f. animation industry)
when frightened or angry we focus narrowly and body responds by tensing muscles and sweating | more likely to be less tolerant- Claims from model
when happy we are less focused and the body relaxes | more likely to overlook minor problems and be more creative- Claims from model
Jordon (2000) based on | Tiger's (1992) framework of pleasure
Focuses on the pleasurable aspects of our interactions with products | (i) physio-pleasure, (ii) socio-pleasure, (iii) psycho-pleasure, (iv) ideo-pleasure (cognitive)
Means of framing a designer's thinking about pleasure, highlighting that | there are different kinds- Pleasure model
Draws from Pragmatism, | which focus on the sense-making aspects of human experience- Technology as Experience
Made up of 4 core threads | compositional,, sensual,, emotional, spatio-temporal- Technology as Experience
Affective aspects are | concerned with how interactive systems make people respond in emotional ways
Well-designed interfaces | canelicit good feelings in users
Expressive interfaces can | provide reassuring feedback
Badly designed interfaces | make people angry and frustrated
Anthropomorphism is | the attribution of human qualities to objects
An increasingly popular formof anthropomorphism is | to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface
Models of affect provide | a way of conceptualizing emotional and pleasurable aspects of interaction design
Consider which interface is best for | a given application or activity
The predominant 80s paradigm was to designuser-centred applications for | the single useron the desktop-Paradigms in HCI
Many technological advances led to a newgeneration of | user's computer environments-Paradigms in HCI
Would radically change the way people think | about and interact with computers-Ubicomp
Computers would be designed to be embedded | in the environment-Ubicomp
Major rethink of what HCI | is in this context-Ubicomp
Designing user experiences for people using interfaces that are | part of the environment with no controlling devices
Ensuring that information, that is | passed around via interconnected displays, devices,and objects, is secure and trustworthy
Large overhead to learning | set of commands-command interfaces
Commands such as abbreviations typed in at the prompt | to which the system responds-command interfaces
Form, name types and structure are | key research questions-Research and design issues
Consistency is | most important design principle-Research and design issues
Command interfaces popular for | web scripting-Research and design issues
Windows were invented to overcome physical constraints of | a computer display, enabling more information to be viewed and tasks to be performed-Windows
Scroll bars within windows also | enable more information to be-Windows
Multiple windows can make it difficult to | find desired one, so techniques used-Windows
How to switch attention between them to | find information needed without getting distracted
Design principles of | spacing, grouping,and simplicity should be used
A number of menu interface styles | flat lists, drop-down, pop-up, contextual, and expanding ones-Menu
Enables more options to be shown on a single screen than is | possible with a single flat menu-Expanding menus
More flexible navigation, allowing for selection of | options to be done in the same window-Expanding menus
Provide access to often-used commands that make | sense in the context of a current task-Contextual menus
Helps overcome some of the navigation problems associated with | cascading menus-Contextual menus
Placement in list is critical | Quit and save need to be far apart
Icons are | assumed to be easier to learn and remember than commands-Icon design
Can be designed | to be compact and variably positioned on a screen-Icon design
Many designed to be very detailed and animated making them | both visually attractive and informative-Icons
GUIs now | highly inviting, emotionally appealing, and feel alive-Icons
Most effective icons are | similar ones-Icon forms
The mapping between the representation and underlying referent can be | similar,analogical,arbitrary-Icon forms
Text labels can be used alongside icons | to help identification for small icon sets
There is a wealth of resources now so do not have to draw or invent icons from scratch | guidelines,style guides,icon builders,libraries
Advanced graphical interfaces exist now that | extend how users can access,explore, and visualize information-Advanced graphical interfaces
Some designed | to be viewed and used by individuals-Advanced graphical interfaces
Others by users who | are collocated or at a distance-Advanced graphical interfaces
Combines different media within a single interface with various forms of interactivity | graphics, text, video, sound, and animations-Multimedia
Facilitates rapid access to | multiple representations of information-Interfaces and interactions
Can provide better ways of | presenting information than can either one alone-Interfaces and interactions
Can enable | easier learning, better understanding, more engagement, and more pleasure-Interfaces and interactions
Can encourage users toexplore different parts of | a game or story-Interfaces and interactions
Tendency to play video clips and animations,while skimming through | accompanying text or diagrams-Interfaces and interactions
Several guidelines around that recommend | how to combine multiple media for different kinds of task
provide new kinds of experience, enabling users to | interact with objects and navigate in 3D space-Virtual reality and virtual environments
Virtual reality and virtual environments | Create highly engaging user experiences
Can have a higher level of | fidelity with the objects they represent, c.f. multimedia-Interfaces and interactions
Early websites were | largely text-based, providing hyperlinks-Web interfaces
Nowadays, more emphasis on making pages | distinctive, striking, and pleasurable-Web interfaces
Vanilla or multi-flavor design | Ease of finding something versus aesthetic and enjoyable experience
Web designers are | thinking great literature-Usability versus attractiveness debate
Users read the web like a | billboard going by at 60 miles an hour-Usability versus attractiveness debate
Need to determine how to brand a web page to | catch and keep 'eyeballs'-Usability versus attractiveness debate
Web interfaces are | getting more like GUIs
Need to consider how best to | design,present, and structure information and system behavior
But also content and navigation are | central
Used most for inquiring about very | specific information-Speech interfaces
Most popular use of speech interfaces currently is | for call routing-Get me a human operator
Idea is they are | automatically forwarded to the appropriate service
Caller-led speech where users state their needs in their own words | I'm having problems with my voice mail
Directed dialogs are where the system is | in control of the conversation-Format
Ask specific questions and | require specific responses-Format
More flexible systems allow the user to take the initiative | I'd like to go to Paris next Monday for two weeks
More chance of error, since caller might assume that | the system is like a human-Format
Guided prompts can help callers back on track | Sorry I did not get all that. Did you say you wanted to fly next Monday
Handheld devices intended to be used | while on the move, e.g., PDAs, cell phones-Mobile interfaces
Small screens, small number of keys and restricted number of controls | Mobile challenges
Usability and preference for these control devices varies | depends on the dexterity and commitment of the user-Mobile challenges
Despite many advances mobile interfaces can be | tricky and cumbersome to use, c.f.GUIs
Especially for those with | poor manual dexterity or 'fat' fingers
Key concern is designing for | small screen real estate and limited control space
Shareable interfaces are | designed for more than one person to use-Shareable interfaces
Shareable interfaces | Provide a large interactional space that can support flexible group working-Advantages
Shareable interfaces | Can be used by multiple users-Advantages
Can support more equitable participation compared | with groups using single PC-Shareable interfaces
More fluid and direct styles of interaction involving | freehand and pen-based gestures
Core design concerns include whether size, orientation, and shape of | the display have an effect on collaboration
horizontal surfaces compared with vertical ones support more turn-taking | and collaborative working in co-located groups
Providing larger-sized tabletops does not | improve group working but encourages more division of labor
Type of sensor-based interaction, where physical objects, e.g., bricks, are | coupled with digital representations-Tangible interfaces
When a person manipulates the physical object/s it causes | a digital effect to occur, e.g. an animation-Tangible interfaces
Digital effects can take place in a number of media and places or can be | embedded in the physical object-Tangible interfaces
Develop new conceptual frameworks that | identify novel and specific features
The kind of coupling to use | between the physical action and digital effect
First developments was head- and eyewearmounted cameras that enabled | user to record what seen and to access digital information-Wearable interfaces
Applications include automatic diaries and | tour guides-Wearable interfaces
Robotic interfaces | Four types
Pet robots have therapeutic qualities,being able to | reduce stress and loneliness-Robotic interfaces
Remote robots can be | controlled to investigate bombs and other dangerous materials-Robotic interfaces
Many innovative interfaces have emerged | post the WIMP/GUI era, including speech,wearable, mobile, and tangible
Many new design and research questions need to be considered | to decide which one to use
Web interfaces are | becoming more like multimedia-based interfaces
Setting goals | Decide how to analyze data once collected-Four key issues
Relationship with participants | Clear and professional,Informed consent when appropriate-Four key issues
Triangulation | Use more than one approach-Four key issues
Pilot studies | Small trial of main study-Four key issues
Unstructured - are | not directed by a script.Rich but not replicable
Structured - are | tightly scripted, often like a questionnaire. Replicable but may lack richness
Semi-structured - guided | by a script but interesting issues can be explored in more depth. Can provide a good balance between richness and replicability
Introduction | introduce yourself, explain the goals of the interview, reassure about the ethical issues,ask to record, present any informed consent form-Running the interview
Warm-up | make first questions easy and non-threatening-Running the interview
Main body | present questions in a logical order-Running the interview
A cool-off period | include a few easy questions to defuse tension at the end-Running the interview
Closure | thank interviewee, signal the end,e.g, switch recorder off-Running the interview
Props | devices for prompting interviewee, e.g., a prototype, scenario-Enriching the interview process
Questions can be | closed or open-Questionnaires
Closed questions are | easier to analyze, and may be done by computer-Questionnaires
Paper, email and the web | used for dissemination-Questionnaires
Sampling can be a problem | when the size of a population is unknown as is common online-Questionnaires
The impact of a question can be | influenced by question order-Questionnaire design
Do you need different versions of | the questionnaire for different populations-Questionnaire design
Provide clear instructionson how to | complete the questionnaire-Questionnaire design
Strike a balance between using white space and | keeping the questionnaire compact-Questionnaire design
Decide on whether phrases will | all be positive, all negative or mixed-Questionnaire design
Advantages of online questionnaires | Responses are usually received quickly
Advantages of online questionnaires | No copying and postage costs
Advantages of online questionnaires | Data can be collected in database for analysis
Advantages of online questionnaires | Time required for data analysis is reduced
Advantages of online questionnaires | Errors can be corrected easily
Problems with online questionnaires | Sampling is problematic if population size is unknown
Problems with online questionnaires | Preventing individuals from responding morethan once
Problems with online questionnaires | Individuals have also been known to change questions in email questionnaires
Direct observation in | controlled environments-Observation
Ethnography is a philosophy with a set of techniques that include | participant observation and interviews-Ethnography
Debate about differences between | participant observation and ethnography-Ethnography
Ethnographers immerse themselves | in the culture that they study-Ethnography
A researcher's degree of participation can | vary along a scale from 'outside' to 'inside'-Ethnography
Analyzing video and data logs | can be timeconsuming-Ethnography
Collections of | comments, incidents, and artifacts are made-Ethnography
Co-operation of people | being observed is required-Ethnography
Informants are useful | Ethnography
Data analysis | is continuous-Ethnography
Interpretivist technique | Ethnography
Questions get refined | as understanding grows-Ethnography
Reports usually | contain examples-Ethnography
Three main data gathering methods | interviews, questionnaires, observation
Four key issues of data gathering | goals, triangulation, participant relationship, pilot
Interviews may be | structured, semi-structured or unstructured
Questionnaires may be | on paper, online or telephone
Observation may be | direct or indirect, in the field or in controlled setting
Techniques can be combined depending on | study focus, participants, nature of technique and available resources
Quantitative data | expressed as numbers
Qualitative data | difficult to measure sensibly as numbers, e.g. count number of words to measure dissatisfaction
Quantitative analysis | numerical methods to ascertain size, magnitude, amount
Qualitative analysis | expresses the nature of elements and is represented as themes, patterns,stories
Averages-Mean | add up values and divide by number ofdata points
Averages-Median | middle value of data when ranked
Averages-Mode | figure that appears most often in the data
Unstructured | are not directed by a script.Rich but not replicable-Simple qualitative analysis
Structured | are tightly scripted, often like a questionnaire. Replicable but may lack richness-Simple qualitative analysis
Semi-structured | guided by a script but interesting issues can be explored in more depth. Can provide a good balance between richness and replicability
Recurring patterns or themes | Emergent from data, dependent on observation framework if used-Simple qualitative analysis
Categorizing data | Categorization scheme may be emergent or pre-specified-Simple qualitative analysis
Looking for critical incidents | Helps to focus in on key events-Simple qualitative analysis
Aims to derive theory from | systematic analysis of data-Grounded Theory
Three levels of 'coding' | 1-Open: identify categories-Grounded Theory
Three levels of 'coding' | 2-Axial: flesh out and link to subcategories-Grounded Theory
Three levels of 'coding' | 3-Selective: form theoretical scheme-Grounded Theory
Researchers are encouraged to draw on own theoretical backgrounds | to inform analysis-Grounded Theory
The people, environment & artefacts are | regarded as one cognitive system-Distributed Cognition
Used for analyzing collaborative work | Distributed Cognition
Focuses on | information propagation &transformation-Distributed Cognition
Explains human behavior in terms of | our practical activity with the world-Activity Theory
Provides a framework that focuses analysis around the concept of an 'activity' and | helps to identify tensions between the different elements of the system
Two key models | one outlines what constitutes an 'activity'; one models the mediating role of artifacts
Only make claims that | your data can support-Presenting the findings
The best way to present your findings depends on | the audience, the purpose, and the data gathering and analysis undertaken
Graphical representations (as discussed above) may be | appropriate for presentation
The data analysis that can be done depends on | the data gathering that was done
Qualitative and quantitative data may be gathered | from any of the three main data gathering approaches
Percentages and averages are commonly used | in Interaction Design
Mean, median and mode are different kinds of 'average' and can have | very different answers for the same set of data
Grounded Theory, Distributed Cognition and Activity Theory are | theoretical frameworks to support data analysis
Presentation of the findings should not | overstate the evidence
a goal-directed problem solving activity informed by | intended use, target domain, materials, cost, and feasibility
a decision-making activity | to balance trade-offs
It is a representation | a plan for development
It is a representation | a set of alternatives and successive elaborations
Realistic expectations | Expectation management-Importance of involving users
No surprises, no disappointments | Expectation management-Importance of involving users
Timely training | Expectation management-Importance of involving users
Communication, but no hype | Expectation management-Importance of involving users
Make the users active stakeholders | Ownership-Importance of involving users
More likely to forgive or accept problems | Ownership-Importance of involving users
Can make a big difference to acceptance and success of product | Ownership-Importance of involving users
Full time: constant input, but lose touch with users | Member of the design team-Degrees of user involvement
Part time: patchy input, and very stressful | Member of the design team-Degrees of user involvement
Short term: inconsistent across project life | Member of the design team-Degrees of user involvement
Long term: consistent, but lose touch with users | Member of the design team-Degrees of user involvement
Reach wider selection of users | Newsletters and other dissemination devices
Need communication both ways | Newsletters and other dissemination devices
Users rarely know | what is possible-What are 'needs'
Users can't tell you what they 'need' | to help them achieve their goals-What are 'needs'
Humans stick to | what they know works-Where do alternatives come from
But considering alternatives is | important to 'break out of the box'-Where do alternatives come from
Designers are | trained to consider alternatives,software people generally are not-Where do alternatives come from
Evaluation | with users or with peers, e.g. prototypes-How do you choose among alternatives
Technical feasibility | some not possible-How do you choose among alternatives
Quality thresholds | Usability goals lead to usability criteria set early on and check regularly-How do you choose among alternatives
Show how activities are | related to each other-Lifecycle models
Lifecycle models are | management tools,simplified versions of reality-Lifecycle models
The Star lifecycle model | Suggested by Hartson and Hix (1989)
Usability engineering lifecycle model | Reported by Deborah Mayhew
Identify needs and establish requirements | Four basic activities in the design process
Design potential solutions ((re)-design) | Four basic activities in the design process
Choose between alternatives (evaluate) | Four basic activities in the design process
Build the artefact | Four basic activities in the design process
User-centered design rests on three principles | 1. Early focus on users and tasks 2. Empirical measurement using quantifiable & measurable usability criteria 3. Iterative design
Task descriptions | Scenarios,Use Cases,Essential use cases
Task analysis | HTA
Two aims | 1. Understand as much as possible about users, task, context	2. Produce a stable set of requirements
Why 'establish' | Requirements arise from understanding users' needs-Establishing requirements Requirements can be justified & related to data-Establishing requirements
Environment or context of use | physical: dusty? noisy? vibration? light? heat?humidity
Environment or context of use | social: sharing of files, of displays, in paper,across great distances, work individually, privacy for clients
Environment or context of use | organisational: hierarchy, IT department's attitude and remit, user support, communications structure and infrastructure, availability of training
Self-service filling and payment system for | a petrol (gas) station-Kinds of requirements
On-board ship data analysis system for | geologists searching for oil-Kinds of requirements
An approach to ethnographic study where user is | expert, designer is apprentice-Contextual Inquiry
Four main principles | Context,Partnership,Interpretation,Focus-Contextual Inquiry
Identifying and involving stakeholders | users, managers, developers, customer reps?,union reps?, shareholders
Involving stakeholders | workshops, interviews,workplace studies, co-opt stakeholders onto the development team
'Real' users, not managers | traditionally a problem in software engineering,but better now
Requirements management | version control,ownership
Problems with data gathering | Political problems within the organisation
Problems with data gathering | Dominance of certain stakeholders
Problems with data gathering | Economic and business environment changes
Problems with data gathering | Balancing functional and usability demands
Focus on identifying | the stakeholders' needs-Some basic guidelines
Involve all the | stakeholder groups-Some basic guidelines
Involve more than | one representative from each stakeholder group-Some basic guidelines
Use a combination of | data gathering techniques-Some basic guidelines
Support the process withprops such as | prototypes and task descriptions-Some basic guidelines
Run a | pilot session-Some basic guidelines
Consider carefully how to | record the data-Some basic guidelines
Start soon after | data gathering session-Data interpretation and analysis
Initial interpretation before | deeper analysis-Data interpretation and analysis
Different approaches | emphasize different elements-Data interpretation and analysis
Task descriptions are | often used to envision new systems or devices-Task analysis
Task analysis is | used mainly to investigate an existing situation-Task analysis
Many techniques, the most popular is | Hierarchical Task Analysis (HTA)-Task analysis
HTA focuses on physical and observable actions,and includes looking at actions | not related to software or an interaction device-Hierarchical Task Analysis
Start with a user goal which is examined and | the main tasks for achieving it are identified-Hierarchical Task Analysis
Tasks are | sub-divided into sub-tasks-Hierarchical Task Analysis
Getting requirements right | is crucial
There are different kinds of requirement, each is | significant for interaction design
Scenarios, use cases and essential use cases can be | used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.
Task analysis techniques such as | HTA help to investigate existing systems and practices
Show how heuristic evaluation can be adapted to evaluate different products | Analytical evaluation:Aims
Explain how to do doing heuristic evaluation and walkthroughs | Analytical evaluation:Aims
Describe how to perform GOMS and Fitts' Law, and when to use them | Analytical evaluation:Aims
Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of analytical evaluation | Analytical evaluation:Aims
Experts use their knowledge of users & technology to review software usability | Analytical evaluation:Inspections
Expert critiques (crits) can be formal or informal reports | Analytical evaluation:Inspections
Heuristic evaluation is a review guided by a set of heuristics | Analytical evaluation:Inspections
Walkthroughs involve stepping through a pre-planned scenario noting potential problems | Analytical evaluation:Inspections
Developed Jacob Nielsen in the early 1990s | Analytical evaluation:Heuristic evaluation
Based on heuristics distilled from an empirical analysis of 249 usability problems | Analytical evaluation:Heuristic evaluation
These heuristics have been revised for current technology | Analytical evaluation:Heuristic evaluation
Heuristics being developed for mobile devices, wearables, virtual worlds, etc | Analytical evaluation:Heuristic evaluation
Design guidelines form a basis for developing heuristics | Analytical evaluation:Heuristic evaluation
Visibility of system status | Analytical evaluation:Nielsen's heuristics
Match between system and real world | Analytical evaluation:Nielsen's heuristics
User control and freedom | Analytical evaluation:Nielsen's heuristics
Consistency and standards | Analytical evaluation:Nielsen's heuristics
Error prevention | Analytical evaluation:Nielsen's heuristics
Recognition rather than recall | Analytical evaluation:Nielsen's heuristics
Flexibility and efficiency of use | Analytical evaluation:Nielsen's heuristics
Aesthetic and minimalist design | Analytical evaluation:Nielsen's heuristics
Help users recognize, diagnose, recover from errors | Analytical evaluation:Nielsen's heuristics
Help and documentation | Analytical evaluation:Nielsen's heuristics
Heuristic evaluation is referred to as discount evaluation when 5 evaluators are used | Analytical evaluation:Discount evaluation
Empirical evidence suggests that on average 5 evaluators identify 75-80% of usability problems | Analytical evaluation:Nielsen's heuristics
Briefing session to tell experts what to do | Analytical evaluation:3 stages for doing heuristic evaluation
Debriefing session in which experts work together to prioritize problems | Analytical evaluation:3 stages for doing heuristic evaluation
Few ethical & practical issues to consider because users not involved | Analytical evaluation:Advantages and problems
Can be difficult & expensive to find experts | Analytical evaluation:Advantages and problems
Best experts have knowledge of application domain & users | Analytical evaluation:Advantages and problems
Focus on ease of learning | Analytical evaluation:Cognitive walkthroughs
Designer presents an aspect of the design & usage scenarios | Analytical evaluation:Cognitive walkthroughs
Expert is told the assumptions about user population, context of use, task details | Analytical evaluation:Cognitive walkthroughs
One of more experts walk through the design prototype with the scenario | Analytical evaluation:Cognitive walkthroughs
Experts are guided by 3 questions | Analytical evaluation:Cognitive walkthroughs
Variation on the cognitive walkthrough theme | Analytical evaluation:Pluralistic walkthrough
Performed by a carefully managed team | Analytical evaluation:Cognitive walkthroughs
The panel of experts begins by working separately | Analytical evaluation:Cognitive walkthroughs
Then there is managed discussion that leads to agreed decisions | Analytical evaluation:Cognitive walkthroughs
The approach lends itself well to participatory design | Analytical evaluation:Cognitive walkthroughs
Provide a way of evaluating products or designs without directly involving users | Analytical evaluation:Predictive models
Less expensive than user testing | Analytical evaluation:Predictive models
Usefulness limited to systems with predictable tasks | Analytical evaluation:Predictive models
Based on expert error-free behavior | Analytical evaluation:Predictive models
Goals - the state the user wants to achieve | Analytical evaluation:GOMS
Operators - the cognitive processes & physical actions needed to attain the goals | Analytical evaluation:GOMS
Methods - the procedures for accomplishing the goals | Analytical evaluation:GOMS
Selection rules - decide which method to select when there is more than one | Analytical evaluation:GOMS
GOMS has also been developed to provide a quantitative model - the keystroke level model | Analytical evaluation:Keystroke level model
The keystroke model allows predictions to be made about how long it takes an expert user to perform a task | Analytical evaluation:Keystroke level model
Fitts' Law predicts that the time to point at an object using a device is a function of the distance from the target object & the object's size | Analytical evaluation:Fitts' Law (Fitts, 1954)
The further away & the smaller the object, the longer the time to locate it and point to it | Analytical evaluation:Fitts' Law (Fitts, 1954)
Fitts' Law is useful for evaluating systems for which the time to locate an object is important | Analytical evaluation:Fitts' Law (Fitts, 1954)
Use the web and other resources to research claims that heuristic evaluation often identifies problems that are not serious and may not even be problems | Analytical evaluation:A project for you...
Decide whether you agree or disagree | Analytical evaluation:A project for you ...
Write a brief statement arguing your position | Analytical evaluation:A project for you ...
Provide practical evidence & evidence from the literature to support your position | Analytical evaluation:A project for you ...
Expert evaluation: heuristic & walkthroughs | Analytical evaluation
Relatively inexpensive because no users | Analytical evaluation
Heuristic evaluation relatively easy to learn | Analytical evaluation
May miss key problems & identify false ones | Analytical evaluation
Predictive models are used to evaluate systems with predictable tasks such as telephones | Analytical evaluation
GOMS, Keystroke Level Model, & Fitts' Law predict expert, error-free performance | Analytical evaluation
Important problems may get missed | Advantages and problems:Biggest problems
Many trivial problems are often identified | Advantages and problems:Biggest problems
Experts have biases | Advantages and problems:Biggest problems
Each expert works separately | Evaluation period...in which
Take one pass to get a feel for the product | Evaluation period...in which
Take a second pass to focus on specific features | Evaluation period...in which
Involves recording performance of typical users doing typical tasks | Usability testing
Controlled environmental settings | Usability testing
Users are observed and timed | Usability testing
Data is recorded on video & key presses are logged | Usability testing
The data is used to calculate performance times, and to identify & explain errors | Usability testing
User satisfaction is evaluated using questionnaires & interviews | Usability testing
Field observations may be used to provide contextual understanding | Usability testing
Experiments test hypotheses to discover new knowledge by investigating the relationship between two or more things | Experiments & usability testing
Usability testing is applied experimentation | Experiments & usability testing
Developers check that the system is usable by the intended user population for their tasks | Experiments & usability testing
Experiments may also be done in usability testing | Experiments & usability testing
Improve products,Few participants,Results inform design | Usability testing
Usually not completely replicable,Conditions controlled as much as possible | Usability testing
Procedure planned,Results reported to developers | Usability testing
Discover knowledge,Many participants,Must be replicable | Experiments for research
Results validated statistically,Strongly controlled conditions | Experiments for research
Experimental design,Scientific reported to scientific community | Experiments for research
Goals & questions focus on how well users perform tasks with the product | Usability testing
Comparison of products or prototypes common | Usability testing
Focus is on time to complete task & number & type of errors | Usability testing
Data collected by video & interaction logging | Usability testing
Testing is central | Usability testing
User satisfaction questionnaires & interviews provide data about users'opinions | Usability testing
Usability lab or other controlled space | Testing conditions
selecting representative users | Testing conditions
developing representative tasks | Testing conditions
5-10 users typically selected | Testing conditions
Tasks usually last no more than 30 minutes | Testing conditions
The test conditions should be the same for every participant | Testing conditions
Informed consent form explains procedures and deals with ethical issues | Testing conditions
Time to complete a task | Some type of data
Time to complete a task after a specified. time away from the product | Some type of data
Number and type of errors per task | Some type of data
Number of errors per unit of time | Some type of data
Number of navigations to online help or manuals | Some type of data
Number of users making a particular error | Some type of data
Number of users completing task successfully | Some type of data
Aim is improvement with each version | Usability engineering orientation
Current level of performance | Usability engineering orientation
Minimum acceptable level of performance | Usability engineering orientation
Target level of performance | Usability engineering orientation
The number is a practical issue | How many participants is enough for user testing?
schedule for testing | Depends on:How...participants...enough...testing?
availability of participants | Depends on:How...participants...enough...testing?
cost of running tests | Depends on:How...participants...enough...testing?
Typically 5-10 participants | How many participants is enough for user testing?
Some experts argue that testing should continue until no new insights are gained | How many participants is enough for user testing?
Predict the relationship between two or more variables | Experiments
Independent variable is manipulated by the researcher | Experiments
Dependent variable depends on the independent variable | Experiments
Typical experimental designs have one or two independent variable | Experiments
Different participants - single...participants...randomly...experimental | Experimental designs
Same participants - all participants appear...conditions | Experimental designs
Matched participants - participants are matched in pairs | Experimental designs
No order effects | Different:participant design:Advantages
Few individuals, no individual differences | Same:participant design:Advantages
Same as different but individual differences reduced | Matched:participant design:Advantages
Many subjects & individual differences a problem | Different:participant design:Disadvantages
Counter-balancing needed because of ordering effects | Same:participant design:Disadvantages
Cannot be sure of perfect matching on all differences | Matched:participant design:Disadvantages
Aim...understand what...naturally and how technology impacts | Field studies
identify opportunities for new technology | Field studies can be used in product design to
determine design requirements | Field studies can be used in product design to
decide how best to introduce new technology | Field studies can be used in product design to
evaluate technology in use | Field studies can be used in product design to
Notes, pictures, recordings,Video,Logging | Observation & interviews
Categorized | Analyzes
Grounded theory,Activity theory | Categories can be provided by theory
There are three types of experimental design | different-participants, same- participants, & matched participants
Determine the goals | framework to guide evaluation
Explore the questions | framework to guide evaluation
Choose the evaluation approachand methods | framework to guide evaluation
Identify the practical issues | framework to guide evaluation
Decide how to deal with the ethical issues | framework to guide evaluation
Evaluate, analyze, interpret and present the data | framework to guide evaluation
The goals influence the approach used for the study | Determine the goals
Identify the best metaphor on which to base the design | Some examples of goals
Check to ensure that the final interface is consistent | Some examples of goals
Investigate how technology affects working practices | Some examples of goals
Improve the usability of an existing product | Some examples of goals
Allevaluations need goals & questions to guide them | Explore the questions
approachinfluences...methodsused,turn,data is collected,analyzed... | Choose the evaluation approach & methods
Involve observation and interviews | field studies typically
Do not involve controlled tests in a laboratory | field studies typically
Produce qualitative data | field studies typically |  Identify practical issues:how to															
Select users,Select equipment,Find evaluators | Identify practical issues:how to
Stay on budget,on schedule | Identify practical issues:how to
Develop an informed consent form | Decide about ethical issues
Know the goals of the study | Participants have a right to
Know what will happen to the findings | Participants have a right to
Privacy of personal information | Participants have a right to
Leave when they wish | Participants have a right to
Be treated politely | Participants have a right to
Approach...methods...influence how data...evaluated, interpreted...presented | Evaluate, interpret & present data
Evaluating design ideas mobile device for rural nurses | Six evaluation case studies
Evaluating cell phonesfor different markets | Six evaluation case studies
Evaluating affective: challenge engagement collaborative | Six evaluation case studies
Improving a design: the HutchWorld patient support system | Six evaluation case studies
Multiple usability:olympic messaging system(OMS) | Six evaluation case studies
Evaluating a new kind of interaction: an ambient system | Six evaluation case studies
to check that users can use the product and that they like it | Why
conceptual,prototypes new system, complete prototypes | What
in natural and laboratory settings | Where
throughout; finished products evaluated information products | When
Analytical evaluation,Controlled experiment,Field study | The language of evaluation
Formative evaluation,Heuristic evaluation,Predictive evaluation | The language of evaluation
Summative evaluation,Usability laboratory,User studies | The language of evaluation
Usability studies,Usability testing,User testing | The language of evaluation
Usability testing,Field studies,Analytical evaluation | Evaluation approaches
Combining approaches,Opportunistic evaluations | Evaluation approaches
A field study using observations interviews requirements | Evaluation to design a mobile record system
Basic information would be recorded | identify each house-hold,head of house,members,age and medical history
An already existing product used as prototype new market | Evaluating cell phones for different world markets
Many practical problems needed to be overcome | Can you name some?
Physiological measures were used | Challenge & engagement collaborative
Early tests of printed scenarios & user guides | Multiple methods to evaluate the 1984 OMS
Early simulations of telephone keypad | Multiple methods to evaluate the 1984 OMS
An Olympian joined team to provide feedback | Multiple methods to evaluate the 1984 OMS
Interviews & demos with Olympians outside US | Multiple methods to evaluate the 1984 OMS
Overseas interface tests with friends and family | Multiple methods to evaluate the 1984 OMS
Free coffee and donut tests | Multiple methods to evaluate the 1984 OMS
Usability tests with 100 participants | Multiple methods to evaluate the 1984 OMS
A 'try to destroy it' test | Multiple methods to evaluate the 1984 OMS
Pre-Olympic field-test atan international event | Multiple methods to evaluate the 1984 OMS
Reliability of the system with heavy traffic | Multiple methods to evaluate the 1984 OMS
The Hello Wall new kind of system designed react presence | Evaluating an ambient system
Three main evaluation approaches are | usability testing, field studies, and analytical evaluation
The main methods are | bserving, asking users, asking,experts
user testing, inspection, and modeling users' task performance | The main methods are
Different kinds of prototyping | low fidelity,high fidelity
Compromises in prototyping | vertical,horizontal
In interaction design it can be (among other things) | a series of screen sketches,a storyboard,a Powerpoint slide show
a video simulating the use of a system,a lump of wood | In interaction design it can be (among other things)
In interaction design it can be (among other things) | piece software limited functionality target another language
a cardboard mock-up | In interaction design it can be (among other things)
Technical issues,Work flow, task design | What to prototype?
Screen layouts and information display | What to prototype?
Difficult, controversial, critical areas | What to prototype?
Uses a medium which is unlike the final medium | Low-fidelity Prototyping
Is quick, cheap and easily changed | Low-fidelity Prototyping
sketches of screens, task sequences, etc 'Post-it' notes | Low-fidelity Prototyping:Examples
storyboards 'Wizard-of-Oz' | Low-fidelity Prototyping:Examples
Often used scenarios,bringing more detail,to role play | Storyboards
sketches showing how user progress through using device | Storyboards
Used early in design | Storyboards
Sketching is important to low-fidelity prototyping | Sketching
Don't be inhibited about drawing ability | Sketching
Uses materials that you would expect in the final product | High-fidelity prototyping
Prototype looks more like final system than low-fidelity | High-fidelity prototyping
high-fidelity Macromedia Director, Visual Basic, Smalltalk | High-fidelity prototyping
Danger think they have full system...see compromises | High-fidelity prototyping
All prototypes involve compromises | Compromises in prototyping
For software-based prototyping maybe there is | a slow response? sketchy icons? limited functionality?
'horizontal':wide range of functions, but little detail | Two common types of compromise
'vertical': provide a lot of detail for only functions | Two common types of compromise
Compromises in prototypes mustn't be ignored | Compromises in prototyping
Taking the prototypes and creating a whole | Construction
Quality must be attended to | usability,reliability,robustness,maintainability
integrity,portability,efficiency,etc | Quality must be attended to
Evolutionary prototyping,'Throw-away' prototyping | Product must be engineered
Transform user requirements/needs into a conceptual model | Conceptual design: from requirements to design
Don't move to a solution too quickly | Conceptual design: from requirements to design
Consider alternatives: prototyping helps | Conceptual design: from requirements to design
Interface metaphors combine familiar knowledge knowledge | Is there a suitable metaphor?
understand,identify potential problem,generate metaphors | Three steps:Is there a suitable metaphor?
Instructing, conversing, manipulating or exploring | Which interaction type?
Do different interface types provide insight? | WIMP, shareable, augmented reality, etc
Express proposed or imagined situations | Using scenarios in conceptual design
scripts for user evaluation of prototypes concrete tasks | Used throughout design in various ways
as a means of co-operation across professional boundaries | Used throughout design in various ways
Plus and minus scenarios to explore extreme cases | Using scenarios in conceptual design
Different kinds of prototyping are | used for different purposes and at different stages
Index cards (3 X 5 inches) | Card-based prototypes
Each card represents one screen or part of screen | Card-based prototypes
user interacting computer,but developer is responding rather than system | 'Wizard-of-Oz' prototyping
Usually done early in design to understand users' expectations | 'Wizard-of-Oz' prototyping
How much structure does it provide? | Evaluate metaphors
How much is relevant to the problem? | Evaluate metaphors
Is it easy to represent? | Evaluate metaphors
Will the audience understand it? | Evaluate metaphors
How extensible is it? | Evaluate metaphors
How are the functions related to each other? | Sequential or parallel?,Categorisations
What information needs to be available? | What data is required to perform the task?
How is this data to be transformed by the system? | What information needs to be available?
Usability is broken down into | 6 goals
Effectiveness refers to | how good a product is at doing what it is supposed to do
Efficiency refers to | the way the product supports users in carrying out their tasks.
Safety refers to | protecting the user from dangerous conditions and undesirable situations
Utility refers to | the extent to which the product provides the right kind of functionally so that users can do what they need or want to do
Learnability refers to | how easy a system is to learn to use.
Memorability refers to | how easy a product is to remember how to use, once learned.
"Is the product capable of allowing people to learn, carry out their work efficiently, access the information they need, or buy the goods they want?". Which usability goal is this question for? | Effectiveness
"One users have learned how to use a product to carry out their tasks, can they sustain a high level of productivity?". Which usability goal is this question for? | Efficiency
"What is the range of errors that are possible using the product and what measures are there to permit users to recovery easily from them?". Which usability goal is this question for? | Safety
"Does the product provide an appropriate set of functions that will enable users to carry out all their tasks in the way they want to do them?". Which usability goal is this question for? | Utility
"Is it possible for the user to work out how to use the product by exploring the interface and trying out certain actions?". Which usability goal is this question for? | Learnabillity
"What kinds of interface support have been provide to help users remember how to carry out tasks, especially for products and operations they use infrequently?". Which usability goal is this question for? | Memorability
Which goals are concerned with how users experience an interactive product from their perspective? | Use experience goals
Which goals are concerned with assessing how useful or productive a system is from its own perspective? | Usability goals
All usability and user experience goals will be relevant to the design and evaluation of an interactive product being developed | False
Which sentence is true about design principles? | They are intended to help designers explain and improve their design, They ensure that designers have provided certain features at an interface
is about sending back information about what action has been done and what has been accomplished, allowing the person to continue with the activity | Feedback
determine ways of restricting the kinds of user interaction that can take place at a given moment | Constraints
refers to designing interfaces to have similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar tasks | Consistency
refers to an attribute of an object that allows people to know how to use it | Affordances
According to Norman, how many kind of affordance are there? | 2
Introducing inconsistency can make it more difficult to learn an interface but in the long run can make it easier to use | True
Introducing inconsistency can make it more difficult to learn an interface but in the long run can make it easier to use | 4
You can design a user experience. | False
What is the process order of interaction design? | Identifying-Developing-Building-Evaluating
Interaction design is multidisciplinary, involving many inputs from wide-ranging disciplines and fields. | True
Interaction design is concerned with designing interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday and working lives. | True
What is a conceptual model? | A high-level description of how a system is organized and operates
In a nutshell, what do a conceptual model provide | All the above
What components that a conceptual model should comprise | The major metaphors and analogies, The concepts and the relationships between concepts, The mappings
What the major metaphors and analogies in conceptual model are used for | The major metaphors and analogies that are used to convey to the user how to understand what a product is for and how to use it for an activity
Which statement is not a one of benefits of conceptualizing a design in general terms early on in the design process encourages design teams | To become narrowly focused early on
Which statements are the problems with interface metaphors? (choose 3) | Break conventional and cultural rules,Conflict with design principles,Forces users to only understand the system in terms of metaphors
Which statements are the problems with interface metaphors? (choose 3) | Break conventional and cultural rules
Which statements are the problems with interface metaphors? (choose 3) | Conflict with design principles
Which statements are the problems with interface metaphors? (choose 3) | Forces users to only understand the system in terms of metaphors
What is benefit of metaphor | All the above
What is not in interaction types | Discovering
Which statement is incorrect about interaction types | Instructing is a bad repetitive kinds of action performed on multiple object.
Which statement is correct about conceptual model? | Conceptual provides a working strategy and a framework of general concepts and their inter-relations
Which statement is incorrect about conversing? | A model is a simplification of some aspect of human-computer interaction intended to make it easier for designers to predict and evaluate alternative designs
Why are Direct Manipulation (DM) interfaces so enjoyable (Choose 3)? | Novices can learn the basic functionality quickly,Experienced users can work extremely rapidly to carry out a wide range of tasks, even defining new functions,Users can immediately see if their actions are furthering their goals and if not do something else
Why are Direct Manipulation (DM) interfaces so enjoyable (Choose 3)? | Novices can learn the basic functionality quickly
Why are Direct Manipulation (DM) interfaces so enjoyable (Choose 3)? | Experienced users can work extremely rapidly to carry out a wide range of tasks
Why are Direct Manipulation (DM) interfaces so enjoyable (Choose 3)? | Users can immediately see if their actions are furthering their goals and if not do something else
What is true about manipulating | Interacting with objects in a virtual or physical space by manipulating them
What are not the core principles of direct manipulation? | Involves users moving through virtual or physical environments
How many types of interaction designer can have with a product/system | 4
Which statement is true about mode Exploring of interaction | Exploring of interaction involves users moving through virtual or physical environments
The main benefit of instructing of interaction types is to support quick and efficient interaction | True
Interaction types provide the way of thinking about how best to support the activities users will be doing when using a product or service | True
Conversional model doesn't allow users, especially novices and technophobes, to interact with the system in a way that is familiar | False
Interaction types (e.g., conversing,  instructing) provide a way of thinking about how best to support the activities users will be  doing when using a product or service | True
Theories, models, and frameworks provide another way of framing and informing design and research | True
A model is a simplification of some aspect of human-computer interaction intended to make it easier for designers to predict and evaluate alternative designs | True
A framework is not a set of interrelated concepts | False
Which statement is INCORRECT about qualitative and quantitative? | Qualitative data is data that is easy to measure, count, or express in numerical terms in a sensible fashion (difficult to measure).
Which step is not one of first steps in analyzing data? | Gathering
Which tool is not one of tools to support data analysis? | Data Recovery
Which is not one of main options in presenting the findings of data analysis? | Using activity theory
Products ID supports the way people communicate and interact in everyday lives, which means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives
Measurement is NOT one of these is useful heuristics for analyzing interactive product,  so find it out: | Feedback
Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is NOT a concept of affordance, but: | Feedback
The more feedback functions are, the more likely users will be able to know what to do next, if NOT? What else? | Capitalize users' knowledge of how they do in physical world
Users moving through virtual or physical environment is instructing interaction modeling, is that true? If not, what else? | describing how users carry out their tasks by telling the system what to do
It is NOT usual for cognitive prcesses to occur in  isolation | TRUE
Information at the interface should be structured to capture users'attention | true
Information at the interface should NOT be structured to capture users'attention | false
Designs imply what for  implications? | Readily distinguishtheir meaning
Asynchronous computer- mediated communication defines communication takes place remotely at same times | false
User frustration happens when  an application doesn't work properly or crashes | tRUE
Expressive interfaces is NOT how the 'appearance' of an interface can affect users | false
Paradigms refer to a new generation of user'computer environments, is that true? If not, what else? | A particular approach that has been adopted by a community in terms of shared assumptions, concepts, values and practices
Pointing device interfaces can be defined as could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse, is that true? If not, what else? | mouse controlling the cursor as a point of entry to the windows, menus, and icons on the screen
Appliance interface type that expert use in AutoCAD, is that true? If not, what else? | command
Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use color-based, , is that true? If not, what else? | Sensor-based
Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use sensor-based | true
Tangible interfaces are NOT type of interaction and they use sensor-based | false
QWERTY means name of a keyboard | false
QWERTY NOT means name of a keyboard | false
Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time is advantage of flat menu | true
Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time is NOT advantage of flat menu | false
Interface type in 1980s included command and WIMP/GUI | true
Interface type in 1980s NOT included command and WIMP/GUI | false
Presentation of the findings should overstate the evidence | false
Chapter 8 NOT discuss about Data analysis, interpretation and presentation? | false
It is sometime assumed that certain forms of data gathering will NOT result in quantitative data and others will only result in qualitative data? | true
CASE STUDY 8.1 NOT uses ethnographic data to understand Idian ATM usage? | false
Data in the qualitative data is NOT more difficult to measure than quantitative data | false
Activity theory (AT) is a product of Soviet psychology | true
Generating alternatives is NOT a key principle in most design disciplines | false
The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that NOT captures a set of activities and how they are related | false
RAD is stand for Rare Application Development? | false
Spiral model is NOT developed by Barry Boehm? | false
Workshops are used in develop JAD model? | true
Waterfall is NOT one of the lifecyle models in software engineering, is that true? If not, what else? | star
Different approaches emphasize different elements e.g. class diagrams for non-object-oriented systems, entity-relationship diagrams for data intensive systems | false
Different data interpretation approaches emphasize difference elements | true
Typically observation and interviews are used to collect field studies data | true
The experimenter controls the independent variable(s) but not | the dependent result
There are four types of experimental design, that's  true | false
Advantages of  same participant design | Few individuals, no individual differences
Advantages of  diff participant design | No order effects
Advantages of  matched  participant design | Same as different participants but individual differences reduced
Disadvantages  of  matched  participant design | Cannot be sure of perfect matching on all differences
Fitts'Law predicts that the time to point at an object using a device is | a function of the distance from the target object & the object's size
Predictive models provide a way of evaluating products or designs without directly involving users | true
Predictive models is usefulless limited to systems with predictable tasks -e.g., telephone answering systems, mobiles, cell phones, etc | false
Performed by anyone in Pluralistic walkthrough | false
Pluralistic walkthrough calls: Variation on the cognitive walkthrough theme. | true
Pluralistic walkthrough lends itself well to participatory design | true
Pluralistic walkthrough had it lent well to participatory design | false
Testing the size of the keys on the cell phone can be done in a school, is that true? If not, what else? | a laboratory
the goal of DECIDE framework is | Identify the best metaphor on which to base the design
...is how well it produces the same results on separate occasions under the same circumstances | consistency
... is concerned with whether the evaluation method measures what it is intended to measure | validity
... concerns how the environment in which an evaluation is conducted influences or even distorts the results | ecological validity
The goal of usability testing is to test whether the product being developed is usable by the intended user population to achieve the tasks for which it was designed | usability testing
In the early days of usability testing, user tests were conducted to investigate the ... of specific features of an interface | efficacy
Why evaluate design? | Designers get feedback about their early design ideas; major problems are fixed before the product goes on sale
Where Evaluate design? | The wide diversity of interactive products gives rise to a range of features that evaluators must be able to evaluate
Once these requirements have been established, they are used to create a design artifact such as laboratory, because it is easier for the evaluators to control the evaluation process | false
The wide diversity of user experience gives rise to a range of features that evaluators must be able to evaluate | false
These are then evaluated to see if the designers have interpreted the users' requirements correctly and embodied them in their designs appropriately | requirements
She may also have a tendency to concentrate ... usability aspect at the expense of missing others. | more on one
The evaluation period, in which the experts are told what to do. A prepared script is useful as a guide and to ensure each person receives the same briefing. | false
... in which each expert typically spends 1-2 hours independently inspecting the product, using the heuristics for guidance. | evaluation period
Typical users can be taught to do heuristic evaluation, although there have been claims that this approach is not very successful (Nielsen, 1994a) | true
The heuristics focus the experts' attention on particular issues, so selecting appropriate heuristics is minnor important | false
In the 1980s, the prevailing paradigm in human-computer interaction was how to design user-centered applications for ... | the desktop computer
How to enable people to access and interact with information in their work, social, and everyday lives, using an assortment of technologies, is one of... | ubiquitous computing
...are also being used much more for a variety of commercial services | Speech interfaces
...are typically abstracted from a theory coming from a contributing discipline | Models
They define a UI as an abstraction that outlines what people can do with a product and what concepts are needed to understand how to interact with it | false
As... said, the findings suggest that using contrasting color is not a good way to group information on a screen and that using borders is more effective | Galitz, 1997
The ... attention that is paid to something and the ... it is processed in terms of thinking about it and comparing it with other knowledge | more, more
In Coversation, if the listener to whom the question or opinion is addressed does not accept the offer to take the floor, the ... rule is applied | second
The propensity people have to attribute human qualities to objects is called... | anthropomorphism
The principle here is that the data is divided up into elements and each element is then categorized, can be found in... | categorizing data
These may be identified by the users, through a retrospective discussion of a recent event, or they may be identified by an observer either through studying video footage, or from observation of the event in real time, can be found in... | analyzing critical incidents
...is the process through which categories, their properties, and dimensions are discovered in the data | Open coding
...found the suggestions in Strauss and Corbin about how to relate subcategories too constraining | Axial coding
...involves linking the categories and subcategories into a theory, and as theory building is quite complex | . Selective coding.
All usability and user experience goals will NOT be relevant to design and evaluation of developing | TRUE
Windows interfaces can be defined as represented applications, objects, commands, and tools that were opened when clicked on, is that true? If not, what else? | . could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse
Icons interfaces can be defined as a mouse controlling the cursor as a point of entry to the windows, menus, and icons on the screen, is that true? If not, what else? | . represented applications, objects, commands, and tools that were opened when clicked on
Menus interfaces can be defined as offering lists of options that could be scrolled through and selected, is that true? If not, what else? | . offering lists of options that could be scrolled through and selected
Pointing device interfaces can be defined as could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse, is that true? If not, what else? | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse
Match between system and real world is in... | Nielsen's heuristics
Based on heuristics distilled from an empirical analysis of ... usability problems | 249
The ..... that are used to convey to the user how to understand what a product is for and how to use it for an activity. | major metaphors and analogies
It is important to stress that it is a description of the user interface but a structure outlining the conceMARK and the relationships between them | . FALSE
Generating .... is a key principle in most design disciplines, and one that should be encouraged in interaction design | alternatives
The best way to ensure that development continues to take users' activities into account is to involve ... throughout development | real users
The interviewer starts with preplanned questions and then probes the interviewee to say more until no new relevant information is forthcoming. This can be found in... | Semi-structured Interviews
(Robson, 2002). Robson suggests the ... steps for an interview | 5
Questionnaire is one of the types of interviews, is that true? If not, what else? | . Structured
....involves assigning certain roles to people and prescribing a priori the types of turns that people are allowed to take in a conversation | formal communication
In..., rules are cycled through recursively | conversational
By ____ it is meant how a product behaves and is used by people in the real world | experience
One of the benefits of using ... embellishments is that they provide reassuring feedback to the user | expressive
The effect can be to make them annoyed to the point of losing their temper: When a system does what the user wants it to do | TRUE
It is important to stress that it is a description of the user interface but a structure outlining the concept and the relationships between them | TRUE
Flashing animations, especially flashing banner ads and pop-up ads, which are very distracting, make me.... | frustrated
It is important to point out that one cannot design a user ____ only design for a user ______ | experience
A concept that has become central to interaction design is the .... | user experience
Such .... mechanisms enable people to coordinate their 'talk' with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop | conversational
Not to become narrowly focused early on, we have to.... | conceptualizing a design in general terms early on in the design process
If interactive technologies could be designed to be more ... then it might be easier to understand them in terms of how they work and what to do when they don't | transparent
The .... between the concept and the user experience the product is designed to support or invoke. | mappings
...is form of language processing | speaking
To be able to create engaging user experiences they also need to understand how emotions work, what is meant by ........., and the role of narrative in human experience | aesthetics, desirability
One solution has been to develop rigorous security measures whereby customers must provide various pieces of information after gaining access to their accounts | TRUE
Sometimes ....have the opposite effect on people | expressive embellishments
...is involving reflective cognition | planning
Empirical studies showing that the aesthetics of an interface can have a positive effect on people's perception of the system's usability (Tractinsky, 1997, 2000) | TRUE
In turn, this can lead the design team to articulate the importance of ...... as a relationship | containership
One way of coping with computer-induced frustration is to .... | ven
The focus of HCI was primarily on .... with scant attention being paid to the design of aesthetically pleasing interfaces | usability
Anthropomorphism is said to be.... | human quality to object propensity
...techniques have been used on the web to entice, cajole, and persuade people to do something they might not have otherwise done | persuasive
A central concern has been to develop systems that allow people to communicate with each other when they are in .... and thus not able to communicate in the usual face-to-face manner | physically different locations
In particular, one cannot design a sensual ..... but only create the design ...... that can evoke it. | experience, features
.... was designed to provide a conversational structure, allowing users to make clear the status of their work | Coordinator
Another factor that affects the extent to which information can be subsequently retrieved is the ... in which it is encoded | context
Another reason is that the way in which you present your requirements may affect your analysis, since it will enable you to identify and express some aspects more ... | easily than others
The term '....' is normally used to describe the activity of investigating and analyzing an initial set of requirements that have been gathered, elicited, or captured | requirements analysis
... involves a combination of data gathering techniques | Triangulation
A grounded theory approach to analysis emphasizes the important role of empirical data in the derivation of theory | TRUE
...involves linking the categories and subcategories into a theory, and as theory building is quite complex | Selective coding.
Much has been written about the significant cost of fixing errors early in the software development cycle rather than late during the requirements activity. | TRUE
What are We Trying to Achieve in the Requirements Activity? | to understand users and  to produce, from the needs identified, a set of stable requirements that form a sound basis to move forward into thinking about design
The benefit of a... is that it allows diverse or sensitive issues to be raised that might otherwise be missed | focus group
... is always advisable to have a plan of the main topics to be covered | Unstructured Interviews
This means that just technical concerns, and for interaction design, the three fundamental activities of design listed above are extended to include an activity of producing a version of the design that users can interact with | TRUE
The purpose of expectation management is to .... | ensure that there are no surprises for users when the product arrives
The study goals provide an orienting focus for the formulation of themes, can be found in... | identifying recurring patterns
The exact steps taken to create a product will vary from designer to designer, from product to product, and from organization to organization | TRUE
The ... step in qualitative analysis is to gain an overall impression of the data and to start looking for patterns. | first
A grounded theory results in an event-driven description which emphasizes information and its propagation through the cognitive system under study | TRUE
We chose the term establishing requirements to represent the fact that requirements arise from data gathering, analysis, and interpretation activities and have been established from a sound understanding of the users' needs | TRUE
Interviews which reflect on an activity that was performed in the recent past, can be called... | Retrospective interviews
The heuristics focus the experts' attention on particular issues, so selecting appropriate heuristics is minor important | FALSE
Evaluate multiple design concept. Useful communication device. Address screen layout issues. All are advantage of.... | low-fidelity prototype
Where Evaluate design? | Designers get feedback about their early design ideas; major problems are fixed before the product goes on sale
...providing a lot of detail for only a few functions | vertical prototype
The evaluation period, in which the experts are told what to do. A prepared script is useful as a guide and to ensure each person receives the same briefing. | FALSE
...can be anything from a paper-based storyboard through to a complex piece of software, and from a cardboard mockup to a molded or pressed piece of metal. | prototype
..., such as the amount of time available to carry out the evaluation, the availability of participants, and suitable equipment, also impact these decisions | Practical issues
These are then evaluated to see if the designers have interpreted the users' requirements correctly and embodied them in their designs appropriately | design ideas
These may be identified by the users, through a retrospective discussion of a recent event, or they may be identified by an observer either through studying video footage, or from observation of the event in real time, can be found in... | identifying recurring patterns
....are useful when the goals are clearly understood and specific questions can be identified | Structured Interviews
...involves evolving a prototype into the final product | evolutionary prototyping
Once these requirements have been established, they are used to create a design artifact such as laboratory, because it is easier for the evaluators to control the evaluation process | FALSE
The wide diversity of user experience gives rise to a range of features that evaluators must be able to evaluate | FALSE
...evaluate whether user-interface elements, such as dialog boxes, menus, navigation structure, online help, etc., conform to the principles | heuristics
...uses the prototypes as stepping stones towards the final design | throwaway prototyping
The way in which experts are intended to use these heuristics is by judging them against ... | aspects of the interface
Typical users can be taught to do heuristic evaluation, although there have been claims that this approach is not very successful (Nielsen, 1994a) | TRUE
...is an evaluation approach to evaluation that involves measuring users' performance and evaluating their satisfaction with the system in question on certain tasks in a laboratory setting | Usability testing
Evaluations that are done to assess the success of a finished product, such as those needed to satisfy a funding agency that its money has been used well or to check that a standard is being upheld, are known as... | summative evaluation
It is important to test a specific hypothesis that makes a prediction about the way users will perform with an interface | TRUE
It is considered that ... users is an acceptable number to test in a usability study (Dumas and Redish, 1999), | 5-12
There are many practical issues to consider when doing any kind of evaluation, and it is important to identify as many of them as possible before starting the study | TRUE
Why Evaluate design? | Designers get feedback about their early design ideas; major problems are fixed before the product goes on sale
Combinations of approaches and ... are often used to obtain different perspectives | Methods
Another trend has been to conduct remote usability testing, where users perform a set of tasks with a product in their own setting and their interactions with the software are logged directly | FALSE
The kind of data analysis that can be done depends on? | Data gathering techniques used
How many kinds of average? | 3
Qualitative data may be framed by? | Theories
How many theories are for qualitative data analysis? | 3
AT model activities in a hierarchical way? | yes
Artifact can be physical or abstract | yes
Quantitative data is data that in the form of numbers but cannot translated easily to numbers? | no
Data gathering sessions for interaction design usually result in a few data? | no
What is storytelling? | A method of telling story to communicate
A distributed cognition analysis results in an event-driven description | yes
How many steps in first phase of analyzing data? | 3
When a high level of reliability is reached, it can be quantified by calculating the ...? | Inter-rater reliability
SPSS is ...? | A kind of tool to support data analysis
Process of systematically fleshing out categories and relating them to their sub-categories is | Selective coding
Process that categories, properties, dimensions are discovered in the data | Open coding
Process of integrating categories to form larger theoretical scheme | Selective coding
Identifying needs if one step of...? | Interaction design process
How many steps in user-centered design process? | 4
Developing alternative designs that meet requirements is one step of...? | Interaction design process
Interactive design allows design to be refined based on...? | Feedback
Evaluation is the process of determining the usability and acceptability of the product or design? | yes
How many life cycles model in software engineering? | 4
How many life cycles in HCI | 3
Waterfall life cycle model have to base on very clear requirement? | yes
Risk analysis and prototyping is very important in waterfall model? | no
What is RAD? | Rapid applications development
How many phases in RAD | 5
JAD workshop is one phase of? | RAD
Life cycles model in HCI are? | All of above
Process is not needed in software engineering? | no
Star life cycle specifies exactly order of process? | no
Process in HCI is similar to process in water fall model? | no
The usability engineering life cycle is consist of... tasks? | 3
Which is one kind of requirement? | All above
How many aims do we achieve in the requirement activity? | 2
In software engineering, bugs should be fixed as soon as possible? | yes
What is requirement? | Statement that specify user's need
Getting requirement right is crucial to the success of the interactive input? | yes
Getting requirement right and soon is not very important? | no
Contextual inquiry is an approach of...? | Data gathering
Use cases focus on...? | User goals
In software engineering, bugs should be fixed as soon as possible? | Yes
Getting requirement right is crucial to the success of the interactive input? | Yes
Getting requirement right and soon is not very important? | No
Contextual inquiry is an approach of? | Data gathering
Use cases focus on? | User goals
HTA is ? | One kind of task analysis
HTA involves? | Breaking tasks down into sub-task
Essential use cases represent abstractions from ? | Scenarios
Scenario is one kind of ? | Description of user task
Task analysis technique help? | Investigating systems
A use case is not associated with actor? | No
To develop use case, first specify? | Actor
HTA focuses on the ctions? | Physical and observable
HTA was originally designed to identify ? | Training needs
What is cognition? | Something goes on in our heads when we carry out our everyday activities
Useful feedback in response to? | User input
How many cognitive frameworks? | 5
External cognition concerns with explaining? | Cognitive process when we interact with different external representations
The information processing provides? | Predictions about human performance
Mental model is one of? | Cognitive framework
How many steps of theory of action | 7
Annotating involves modifying external representation? | Yes
Cognitive tracing involves internally manipulating items? | No
What is PIM? | Personal information management
Memory involves ...? | Recalling various kind of knowledge
Attention, perception and recognition are parts of? | Cognition
The distributed cognition approach studies...? | The nature of cognitive phenomena
Memory load is a method that bases on...? | Memorable information
Attention is process of...? | Selecting things to concentrate on
Perception is ...? | How information is acquired from the environment
Cognition is what goes on in our heads when we carry out our everyday activities. | True
What are the design implications of 'memory'? (Choose 2) | Do not overload users' memories with complicated
What is NOT a design implication of 'learning'? | Design interface that is have many new interesting items to learn
What are NOT cognitive frameworks in interaction design? | Image processing and Internal cognition
According to Norman's theory of action, there are 7 stages of an activity. What is NOT one of them? | None of above
Computational offloading occurs when we use a tool or device | False
"Using pen and paper to solve a math problem" is an example of | Computational offloading
What are the main benefits of conceptual frameworks and cognitive theories? | They can explain user interaction and They can predict user performance
We can only focus our attention on one thing at a time. | True
The term 'affordance' refers to the relationship between the actor (for our purposes the user) and the world signifying possibility for action. | True
Good understanding of the attention grabbing mechanisms allows the designer to design better interfaces. | True
Awareness knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is Talking with whom | True
On the door's handle, you have seen the sign "DO NOT DISTURB". Is that the ATTENTION? | True
All data gathering sessions should have? | Clear goals
Each planned data gathering should be tested by? | Running a pilot study
Triangulation involves? | Combination of data gathering techniques
How many styles in interview? | 3
Questionnaires may be? | All
Questionnaire must be direct or indirect? | No
How many issues in data gathering | 4
Planning an interview involves developing the set of questions to be covered? | 4
Questions for interview must be open? | No
What are questionnaires? | Technique for collecting user opinions
Gathering ethnography is hard | No
Interaction log is method of? | Indirect observation
The focus of the study is one of techniques of? | Choosing appropriate data gathering
Interview often take place in ...? | Neutral environment
Questionnaires are ...? | Technique for collecting demographic data
In closing session of interview, what should we do? | Thanks interviewee and switch off the recorder...S
In warm-up session of interview, what should we do? | Ask easy, non-threatening questions
What are the main benefits of conceptual frameworks and cognitive theories? (Choose 2) | They can explain user interaction , They can predict user performance
What are the main benefits of conceptual frameworks and cognitive theories? (Choose 2) | They can explain user interaction
What are the main benefits of conceptual frameworks and cognitive theories? (Choose 2) | They can predict user performance
What is NOT a data gathering method? | None
Audio recordings, notes, and video recordings are raw data of ... | Interviews Observation
Storytelling is used extensively in interaction design both to communicate findings of investigate studies, and as the basis for further development such as product design or system enhancements. | True
What are 3 kinds of average? (Choose 3) | Mean Median Mode
Qualitative data analysis may be framed by 3 theories. What are they? (Choose 3) | Grounded Activity Boundary
Developers can gain a better understanding of users' goals, leading to a more appropriate, more usable product when we have who involving in the development process? | User
According to Gould and Lewis (1985), there are 3 principles that they believed would lead to a useful and easy to use computer system. What are they? (Choose 3) | Easy focus on users and tasks	Empirical measurement	Iterative design
According to Gould and Lewis (1985), there are 3 principles that they believed would lead to a "useful and easy to use computer system". What are they? (Choose 3) | Easy focus on users and tasks
According to Gould and Lewis (1985), there are 3 principles that they believed would lead to a "useful and easy to use computer system". What are they? (Choose 3) | Empirical measurement
According to Gould and Lewis (1985), there are 3 principles that they believed would lead to a "useful and easy to use computer system". What are they? (Choose 3) | Iterative design
What term is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related? | Lifecycle Model
What is RAD and JAD? | Rapid Applications Development and Joint Application Development
After established requirements, you must understand who the users are and what their goals are in using the product. | False
Looking at others' designs provides useful inspiration and encourages designers to consider alternative design solutions, which is key to effective design. | True
The interaction design lifecycle model is complementary to lifecycle models from other fields. | True
Usability criteria, technical feasibility, and users' feedback on prototypes should not be used to choose among alternatives. | False
Identifying needs and establishing requirements are to ... | Both
A requirement is a statement about an intended product that specifies what it should do or how it should perform. | True
Aims of the requirement activity are to make the requirement ...  (Choose 3) | Unambiguous
"A robot working in a car assembly plant should be able to accurately place and weld together the correct pieces of metal." This statement is a/an ... | Functional requirement
"A word processor must be able to run on a variety of platforms such as PCs, Macs, and Unix machines". This statement is a/an ... | None Functional requirement
The overall purpose of data analyzing in the requirements activity is to collect sufficient, relevant, and appropriate data so that a set of stable requirement can be produced. | False
Observation of participant in their natural setting is ... | Direct observation
Diaries and interaction logging are used more often within the requirements activity. | False
What is the approach that emerged from the ethnographic approach to data gathering? | Contextual inquiry
Although the focus of use cases is specifically on the interaction between the user and a software system, the stress is still very much on the user's perspective, not the system's. | True
Interaction design is concerned with? | Designing interactive products
Centre to interaction design is determining? | How to create quality user experiences
Interaction design is? | Multidisciplinary
Which can help lead to the design of good interactive products? | Usability and user experience
Which are useful heuristics for analyzing and evaluating aspects of an interactive product | Feedback and simplicity
Optimizing the interaction requires? | Context of use, types of activity, cultural differences, and user groups
How many steps of interaction design process | 4
Team members always look at problems and see them in the same way? | Yes
One cannot design user experience, only design for user experience? | Yes
What is usable? | Easy to learn, effective to use, and providing an enjoyable user experience
Usability goal is broken down into ... goals | 6
Visibility is one of ... | Design principles
Learn ability is ...? | How easy the system is to learn to use
Memo ability is ...? | How easy the system is to remember to use
Safety is ...? | Protecting users from dangerous conditions
Effectiveness is ...? | How good a product is at doing what it is supported to do
What is the central concern of interaction design? | To develop interactive products that are usable
What is meant by 'usable products'? | All of the others
Fill in the blank (a), (b) with: | interactive, communicate
HCI has cast its net much wider, begin concerned with the theory, research, and practical of designing for all manner of products, whereas ID has traditionally had a narrower focus, begin "concern with the design, evaluation, and implementation of interactive computing systems for human use". | False
What are the benefits of bringing together people with different backgrounds and training in interaction design? | Generate more ideas Develop new methods
What is the concept that has become the central of interaction design? | User experience
What are goals that usability broken down into? | Efficiency, Effectiveness, Safety, Utility, Learnability, Memorability
Products should be designed to provide adequate feedback to the users to ensure they know what to do next in their tasks. | True
What 'Constraints' refer to? | Determining ways of restricting the kinds of user interaction that can take place at a given moment.
Fill in (a) in this sentence: 'The more (a) the more likely users will be able to know what to do next." | Visibility
One of the problems of applying more than one of the design principles in interaction design is that trade-on can arise between them. | False
Optimizing the interaction between users and interactive products require taking into account a number of interdependent factors, including ... | Type of activity, Cultural differences, User groups, Context of use
Is it important to have good understanding of problem space? | Yes
Which provide another way of framing and informing design and research? | Theories, models, frameworks
Decision about conceptual design should be made ... commencing any physical design? | Before
Which provide a way of thinking of about how to best support the activities users will be doing when using a product and service? | Interaction types
How many are there in fundamental types of interaction? | 4
Metaphors are not so popular? | No
A main benefit of developing a conceptual design is to allow people to interact with system in the way that familiar to them? | Yes
The framework is simple but not effective | No
A disadvantage of conversing type is? | The potential misunderstandings
How many benefits of conceptualizing a design | 3
Instructing type describes...? | How users carry out their tasks by telling the system what to do
The designer's model is...? | The model the designer has of how the system should work
The system image is ...? | How system actually works through the interface
The user's model is...? | How the users understand the system work
Exploring is one type of ...? | Interaction types
Identifying usability and user experience goals is a pre-requisite to understand what? | Problem Space
"People will want to watch movies on their cell phones". This sentence is a/an ... | Assumption
Conceptual model is an abstraction that outlines what people can do with a product and what concepts are needed to understand how to interact with it. | True
According to Johnson and Henderson, a conceptual model should comprise of 4 components, what are they? | The major metaphors and analogies, the concepts, the relationships between concepts, the mappings
What is the central component of a conceptual model? | The interface metaphor
What is NOT objection to the use of metaphors in interaction design? | Too detail information
What NOT are types of interaction? | Conversing
_____ is the form of interaction base on the idea of a person having a conversation with a system, where the system acts as dialog partner. | Conversing
What is the designer's model? | The model the designer has of how the system should work
Decisions about conceptual design should be made after commencing any physical design, e.g. choosing menus, icons, and dialog boxes. | False
The form of interaction involves .... Objects and capitalizes on user's knowledge of how they do so in the physical world. | Manipulating
____ is the mode of interaction involves users moving through virtual or physical environments. | Exploring
What is meant by "usable products"? | All of the others
"By interaction design, we mean designing (a) products to support the way people (b) in their everyday and working lives." | interactive, communicate
Fill in (a) in this sentence: "The more (a) the more likely users will be able to know what to do next." | Visibility
Optimizing the interaction between users and interactive products require taking into account a number of interdependent factors, including ... (Choose 4) | Type of activityCultural differences User groups Context of use
Match the name with the description of interaction types: | 1 - B, 2 - A, 3 - C
What is the designe's model? | The model the designer has of how the system should work
What are the design implications of 'memory'? (Choose 2) | Do not overload users' memories with complicated procedures for carrying out tasks ,Design interfaces that promote recall rather than recognition
What are the design implications of 'memory'? (Choose 2) | Do not overload users' memories with complicated procedures for carrying out tasks
What are the design implications of 'memory'? (Choose 2) | Design interfaces that promote recall rather than recognition
What are NOT cognitive frameworks in interaction design? (Choose 2) | Image processing Internal cognition
According to Norman's theory of action, there are 7 stages of an activity. What is NOT one of them? | None of the others
Computational offloading occurs when we use a tool or device in conjunction with an internal representation to help us carry out a computation. | False
Essential use cases were developed to combat the limitations of both scenarios and use cases. | True
Task analysis is used mainly to envision new products, not to investigate an existing situation. | False
What is HTA? | Hierarchical Task Analysis
What HTA involves? | All of the others
Getting the requirements right is crucial to the success of the interactive product. | True
What is meant by prototype? | None of the others
What is not the benefit of prototypes? | Show customer every functions of software
Match the name and definition of prototyping types: | 1 - A; 2 - C; 3 - D; 4 - B;
What is concerned with transforming needs and requirements into a conceptual model? | Conceptual design
What are the key principles of conceptual design? (Choose 2) | Use low-fidelity prototyping to get rapid feedback, Iterate, iterate, and iterate
Match the types of interface with the definitions | 1 - A; 2 - D; 3 - B; 4 - C;
Design is about making choices and decisions, and the designer must strive to balance environmental, user, data, and usability requirements with non-functional requirements. | False
What is commonly used for expressing proposed or imagined situations to help in conceptual design? | Scenario
A sequence of actions or events that the user and the system go through to achieve a task is called a ... | Storyboard
Prototyping may be low fidelity - such as (A), or high fidelity - such as (B). What to fill in (A) and (B), respectively? | Paper - based, software - based
Choose the statements which are NOT correct in the following list: (Choose 2) | Low  fidelity prototypes may be vertical or horizontal, High  fidelity prototypes
Choose the statements which are NOT correct in the following list: (Choose 2) | Low - fidelity prototypes may be vertical or horizontal
Choose the statements which are NOT correct in the following list: (Choose 2) | High - fidelity prototypes
What are the aspects of the design activity? (Choose 2) | Conceptual design, Physical design
What are the aspects of the design activity? (Choose 2) | Physical design
What are the aspects of the design activity? (Choose 2) | Conceptual design
Choose the correct statements in the following list: (Choose 2) | Physical design specifies, Conceptual design develops an outline
Choose the correct statements in the following list: (Choose 2) | Physical design specifies
Choose the correct statements in the following list: (Choose 2) | Conceptual design develops an outline
An initial physical model may be expanded by considering which functions the product will perform (and which the user will perform), how those functions are related, and what information is required to support them. | False
What is NOT an approach to develop an initial conceptual model? | Interaction metaphors
What are good reasons for investing in evaluation? | The wide diversity of interactive products gives rise to a range of features that evaluators must be able to evaluate.
Usability is broken down into _____ | 6 goals
Effectiveness refers to _____ | how good a product is at doing what it is supposed to do
Efficiency refers to _____ | the way the product supports users in carrying out their tasks.
Safety refers to | the way the product supports users in carrying out their tasks.
Utility refers to | the extent to which the product provides the right kind of functionally so that users can do what they need or want to do.
Learnability refers to | how easy a system is to learn to use
"Is the product capable of allowing people to learn, carry out their work efficiently, access the information they need, or buy the goods they want? ". Which usability goal is this question | Effectiveness
"One users have learned how to use a product to carry out their tasks, can they sustain a high level of productivity?". Which usability goal is this question for | Efficiency
"What is the range of errors that are possible using the product and what measures are there to permit users to recovery easily from them?". Which usability goal is this question for | Safety
"Does the product provide an appropriate set of functions that will enable users to carry out all their tasks in the way they want to do them?". Which usability goal is this question | Utility
"Is it possible for the user to work out how to use the product by exploring the interface and trying out certain actions?". Which usability goal is this question for | Learnability
Which goals are concerned with how users experience an interactive product from their perspective? | User experience goals
All usability and user experience goals will be relevant to the design and evaluation of an interactive product being developed. | False
Which sentence is true about design principles? (Choose two) | They are intended to help, They ensure that designers
Which sentence is true about design principles? (Choose two) | They are intended to help
Which sentence is true about design principles? (Choose two) | They ensure that designers
_____ is about sending back information about what action has been done and what has been accomplished, allowing the person to continue with the activity | Feedback
_____ determine ways of restricting the kinds of user interaction that can take place at a given moment | Constraints
_____ refers to designing interfaces to have similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar tasks. | Consistency
_____ refers to an attribute of an object that allows people to know how to use it. | Affordances
According to Norman, how many kind of affordance are there? | Introducing inconsistency can make it more difficult to learn an interface but in the long run can make it easier to use. |  True
How many basic activities does the process of interaction design involve | 4
You can design a user experience | False
What is the process order of interaction design | 1-2-3-4
Interaction design is multidisciplinary, involving many inputs from wide-ranging disciplines and fields | True
Interaction design is concerned with designing interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday and working lives | True
What is a conceptual model | A high-level description of how a system is organized and operates
In a nutshell, what do a conceptual model provide | All of above
What the major metaphors and analogies in conceptual model are used for | The major metaphors and analogies that are used to convey to the user how to understand what a product is for and how to use it for an ac
Which statements are the problems with interface metaphors? (choose 3) | Break conventional,Conflict with design,Forces users to
Which statements are the problems with interface metaphors? (choose 3) | Break conventional
Which statements are the problems with interface metaphors? (choose 3) | Conflict with design
Which statements are the problems with interface metaphors? (choose 3) | Forces users to
Which statement is incorrect about conversing | A model is a simplification of some aspect of human-computer interaction intended to make it easier for designers to predict
Why are Direct Manipulation (DM) interfaces so enjoyable (Choose 3)? | Novices can ,Experienced users ,Users can immediately
Why are Direct Manipulation (DM) interfaces so enjoyable (Choose 3)? | Novices can
Why are Direct Manipulation (DM) interfaces so enjoyable (Choose 3)? | Experienced users
Why are Direct Manipulation (DM) interfaces so enjoyable (Choose 3)? | Users can immediately
What is true about manipulating | Interacting with objects in a virtual or physical space by
What are not the core principles | Involves users moving through virtual or physical environments
Which statement is true about mode Exploring of interaction | Exploring of interaction involves users moving through virtual or
Which statement is INCORRECT about qualitative and quantitative | Qualitative data is data that is easy to measure
Which step is not one of first steps in analyzing data | Gathering
Which tool is not one of tools to support data analysis | Data Recovery
Which is not one of main options in presenting the findings of data analysis | Using activity theory
What is one of the tasks which quantitative data analysis for interaction design usually involves? | All of others
Which is one kind of average in data analysis? | All of others
Which is not one of theories that qualitative data analysis may be framed | Scientific theory
Which is one of the things that graphical representations of quantitative data help in identifying | All of others
The first step in qualitative analysis is to gain an overall impression of the data and to start looking for patterns | True
Performing an activity theory (AT) analysis enables researchers and designers easy to identify the tensions in a workplace leading to specific needs for new technological tools | False
Which is not one of main steps in simple qualitative analysis? | Analyzing materials
According to Strauss and Corbin (1998), which are three aspects of 'coding' in grounded theory? | Open coding, Axial coding, Selective coding
Which is the right sort of levels from bottom to top in the original activity theory model | Operation, Action, Activity
A grounded theory approach to analysis emphasizes the important role of empirical data in the derivation of theory | True
According to Strauss and Corbin (1998), how many aspects of 'coding' in grounded theory? | 3
What is step of first steps in analyzing data? | All of others
Which statement is true about the qualitative? | Qualitative data is data that is difficult to measure, count, or express in numerical terms in a sensible fashion
Which statement in interaction design is carried out for one of two purpose: to derive requirements for an interaction product, or to evaluate an interactive product under development? | All of others
A number of rigorous notations have been developed to analyze, capture, and present information for interaction design | True
They are fundamental activities that are recognized in all design EXCEPT | Preparing the requirements
Which is NOT true about Expectation management? | Make the users active stakeholders
Which reasons for user involvement are important if the product is to be usable and used? (Choose 2) | Ownership, Expectation management
Which reasons for user involvement are important if the product is to be usable and used? (Choose 2) | Ownership
Which reasons for user involvement are important if the product is to be usable and used? (Choose 2) | Expectation management
Which kind of user involvement has constant input but lose touch with the rest of user group? | Full - time
Which kind of user involvement has patchy input and very stressful? | Part-time
Which kind of user involvement is inconsistency across project life | Short term
Which kind of user involvement is consistent, but loose touch with the rest of user group? | Long term
Choose 3 principles that user-centered approach is based on. | Empirical measurement, Early focus , Iterative design
Choose 3 principles that user-centered approach is based on. | Empirical measurement
Choose 3 principles that user-centered approach is based on. | Early focus
Choose 3 principles that user-centered approach is based on. | Iterative design
Which basic activity in Interaction Design is fundamental to a user - centered approach | Identifying needs and establishing requiremen
Which basic activity in Interaction Design can be broken up into 2 sub-activities: Conceptual design and Physical design | Developing alternative designs
Which basic activity in Interaction Design creates interactive versions of the design to be built? | Building interactive versions of the designs
Which basic activity in Interaction Design is the process of determining the usability and acceptability of a product or a design | Evaluating designs
User is NOT a person | N.	Who will be affected by the system
Stakeholder is a person | Who have a direct or indirect influence on the system requirements
Users can tell you what they'need' to help them achieve their goals | False
Choose the right answers (Choose 2) | Flair and creativity, Seek inspiration
Choose the right answers (Choose 2) | Flair and creativity
Choose the right answers (Choose 2) | Seek inspiration
Which is used to overcome potential client misunderstandings and to test the technical feasibility of a suggested design and its production | Prototyping
Involving users in the design process helps with expectation management and feelings of ownership, but how and when to involve users is a matter of dispute | True
Before you can begin to establish requirements, you must understand who the users are and what their goals are in using the product | True
Prototyping is a useful technique for facilitating user feedback on designs at all stages. | True
What is the waterfall lifecycle model of software development? | Requirement, Design, Code, Test, Maintenance
What is a basic RAD lifecycle model of software development | Project initiation, JAD workshops, Iterative design and build, Evaluate final system, Implementation review
How many phases have a basis RAD lifecycle model | 5
What is RAD lifecycle model? | Rapid Applications Development
What is task of the usability engineering lifecycle | All of the others.
What are the activities of a simple interaction design? | All of the others
What is not the human-centered design activity? | None of the others
How many basic activities of interaction design? | 4
Identifying needs and establishing requirements for the user experience is one of the basic. activities of interaction design? | True
What is a user-centered approach? | All of others
what are the Early focus on users and tasks? | All of other
How many main usability goals you would like for your system? | 3
What is the value of prototyping? | Save so much effort and resource
How many fundamental activities that are recognized in all design | 3
How many aims that we are trying to achieve in the requirements activity? | 2
In software engineering, What are two traditional different kinds of requirements | Functional requirements and non-functional requirements
What is the common form of data gathering | All of the others
Contextual inquiry rests on what main principles: | Context, partnership, interpretations and focus
Task analysis is an umbrella term that covers techniques for investigating cognitive processes and physical actions, at a high level of abstraction and in minute detail | True
Interviews are used to | target specific user groups
Observations are used to | understand the context of task performance
Questionnaires are used to | reach a wider population
Essential use cases are more detailed than use cases. | False
What is the starting point of an HTA? | User goal.
Each step in an HTA  has a corresponding plan. | False
Prototype is a limited representation of a design that allows users to interact with it and to explore its suitability | True
Which of the following is Usability testing | Procedure planned
Which of following is FALSE: | Everything that has been learned through the iterated steps of prototyping and evaluation needn't be integrated to produce the final product.
In ethical aspect of evaluation, the participants do not have the right to | Use the result of the study
FATAL, ERROR , INVALID are the guideline for designing good error message | False
When working with the DECIDE framework, it is common to | Moving backwards and forwards between items
In usability testing, user satisfaction is evaluated using | questionnaires interviews
A scenario is an "formal narrative descriptions" | False
Which of the following is Experiments for research | Results validated statistically
What is not the questions in order to determine the goals | When we do it?
One of similar ways of becoming aware and keeping aware take place in other contexts | School
FATAL. ERROR . INVALID are the guideline for designing good error message | False
What is the most popular expanding menu | Cascade menu
Asking user. observing user. inspection method are | Main evaluation methods
Which is wrong Expectation management is | Have surprises. have disappointments
Triangulation in data gathering is only one method for data recording, such as: notes, audios, videos | True
ACM stands for | The Association for Computing Machinery
When working with the DECIDE framework. it is common to: A None of the others | Moving forwards between items
What's the field of usability engineering lifecycle? | All of above
Which is not emotion in Yahoo Messenger | ==))))))
High-fidelity prototype uses materials expected in | Final product
The system should keep the user informed about what is taking place by using | feedback
Which of IRB form asks Are there any risk to the subject | Risks and Benefits
Wearable interface designed for more than one person to use | False
Which offering lists of options that could be scrolled through and selected | Menus
Which of following is FALSE | Everything that has been learned through the iterated steps of prototyping and evaluation needn't be integrated to produce the final product.
Which kind of user involvement consistent. but loose touch with the rest of user group | Long term
Amusing to the designer but not the user is | Gimmicks
In which kind of data recording that flexibility of use is needs positioning and focusing camera lens, obtrusive | Video
Nintendo's Pocket Pikachu is designed to motivate children to be more physically active on a regular basis | True
In which kind of data recording that flexibility of use is needs positioning and focusing camera lens. obtrusive | Video
Conversation can take a variety of forms | True
Which of IRB form asks "Are there any risk to the subject | Risks and Benefits
Which is TRUE about Physical design | All of above
The system should keep the user informed about what is taking place by usin | feedback
Anthropomorphism is the attribution of human qualities to objects | True
Mobiles have become pervasive. decreasingly used in all aspects of everyday and working life | False
Sketching is not an example of low-fidelity prototype | False
Field study is one approach of ...? | Evaluation
What are NOT cognitive frameworks in interaction design | Image processing and Internal cognition
What is an evaluation approach where users are asked to perform certain tasks using a system or prototype in an informal or laboratory setting | user testing
What are the benefits of bringing together people with different backgrounds and training in interaction design | A and B
Which is not Shneiderman's guidelines for error massages include | All of the others
Evaluation is needed in...? | Checking users can use and like product or not
Which statement is not a one of benefits of conceptualizing a design in general terms early on in the design process encourages design teams: | To become narrowly focused early on
Deceptive. make people feel anxious. inferior or stupid | True
Choose the correct statement: | Essential use cases represent abstractions from scenarios and try to avoid the assumptions of an use case
Select the first step of design phase in Interaction Design | Developing conceptual model
Which is the disadvantage of high-fidelity prototype? | More expensive to develop
Reduced work load memory is NOT a design implication for supporting users memory | False
Yahoo Messenger chatting is an example of | Synchronous communication
What is usable | Easy to learn, effective to use, and providing an enjoyable user experience
What is the range of errors that are possible using the product and what measures are there to permit users to recovery easily from them?". Which usability goal is this question fo | Safety
Triangulation in data gathering is only one method for data recording. such as: notes. audios. videos | False
VBIC stands for | Virtual Business Information Center
A fundamental aspect of everyday life is being social - talking to one other | True
What does multi-touch support | All of the others
Which of the following is type of data of usability test | All of the others
Select the technique. which is used mainly to investigate an existing situation. not to envision new products | Task analysis
Example quantitative data of interviews is | All of the others
Being good at displaying a small number of options at the same time and where the size of the display is small. iPods one factors on | Flat menus
Deceptive, make people feel anxious, inferior or stupid? | False
Which can be thought as a "conversation with a purpose" | Interviews
Mobiles have become pervasive, decreasingly used in all aspects of everyday and working life | False
Which is middle value of data when ranked | Median
In usability testing. field observations may be used to | provide contextual understanding
The next step of exploring the questions is: | Choose the evaluation approach and methods
Select incorrect statement | Closed-questions result is mainly qualitative data
What does multi-touch support | swiping
The next step of exploring the questions is | Choose the evaluation approach and methods
Which is NOT coordinating mechanisms | Overhearing and overseeing
Which of the following is not usability test type of data | Document file
In usability testing, user satisfaction is evaluated using | questionnaires & interviews
The interface should accommodate both novice and experienced users by using | Preventing error
Evaluation is needed in? | Checking users can use and like product or not
What is cognition | Something goes on in our heads when we carry out our everyday activities
Which is type of quantitative data analysis? | Percentage and average
What is NOT objection to the use of metaphors in interaction design | Too detail information
Which can be designed to be compact and variably positioned on a screen | Icon
Babble at IBM is developed by | David Smith
Dealing with constraints, such as gaining access to users or accommodating users' routines, is an important skill for designer to develop | False
Brain-computer interfaces (BCI) provide a communication pathway between | A person's brain waves and an external device. such as a cursor on a screen
What is a basic RAD lifecycle model of software development | Project initiation, JAD workshops, Iterative design and build. Evaluate final system. Implementation review.
Which kind of user involvement is consistent, but loose touch with the rest of user group | Long term
Reduced work load memory is NOT a design implication for supporting user's memory | False
... is performed in laboratory which is controlled by evaluator | Controlled experiment
Functional requirements are used to describe what the product should do | True
GOMS has also been developed to provide a quantitative model - the keystroke level model | True
The interface should accommodate both novice and experienced users by using: | shortcut
Which is effectiveness | appropriate support? task coverage. information available
Being good at displaying a small number of options at the same time and where the size of the display is small, e.g. iPods is one factors of | A number of menu interface styles
Most effective icons are similar ones | Similar ones`
The current speaker chooses the next speaker by asking an opinion, question, or request is not one of rules of Sacks et al | False
Awareness not involved | All of above
In order to make goals operational, we must clearly articulate the questions to be answered by the evaluation study | False
Which of following is FALSE | Prototype are used for expressing proposed or imagined situations to help in conceptual design
Learnability refers to ... | how easy a system is to learn to use
Which is the second key issues of data gathering | The relationship with participants
Select the technique, which is used mainly to investigate an existing situation, not to envision new products | Task analysis
Which is not Shneiderman's guidelines for error messages include | All of the others
What are the Early focus on users and tasks | All of above
Which is NOT a kind of inspection technique | Predictive models
In which kind of data recording that more expensive, editing, mixing and analysis equipment needed. | None of the other
Which one of design principle refers to have the same interfaces to the all tasks | Consistency
A disadvantage of conversing type is | The potential misunderstandings
Which of the following advise us not to use irrelevant information | Aesthetic and minimalist design
What are the main evaluation methods | All of the others
Which is wrong. Expectation management is | Realistic expectations
Which statement is INCORRECT about qualitative and quantitative | Qualitative data is data that is easy to measure, count, or express in numerical terms in a sensible fashion (difficult to measure).
According to Strauss and Corbin (1998), how many aspects of "coding" in grounded theory | 3
What is the central concern of interaction design | To develop interactive products that are usable
What is meant by "usable products" | All of the others
"By interaction design, we mean designing (a) products to support the way people (b) in their everyday and working lives." Fill in the blank (a), (b) with: | interactive, communicate
What is the concept that has become the central of interaction design | User experience
What are goals that usability broken down into | Efficiency, Effectiveness, Safety, Utility, Learnability, Memorability
Products should be designed to provide adequate feedback to the users to ensure they know what to do next in their tasks | True
What "Constraints" refer to | Determining ways of restricting the kinds of user interaction that can take place at a given moment.
Fill in (a) in this sentence: "The more (a) the more likely users will be able to know what to do next". | Visibility
One of the problems of applying more than one of the design principles in interaction design is that trade-on can arise between them | False`
Optimizing the interaction between users and interactive products require taking into account a number of interdependent factors, including | Type of activity
Optimizing the interaction between users and interactive products require taking into account a number of interdependent factors, including | Cultural differences
Optimizing the interaction between users and interactive products require taking into account a number of interdependent factors, including | User groups
Optimizing the interaction between users and interactive products require taking into account a number of interdependent factors, including | Context of use
Identifying usability and user experience goals is a pre-requisite to understand what | Problem Space
People will want to watch movies on their cell phones". This sentence is a/an | Assumption
According to Johnson and Henderson, a conceptual model should comprise of 4 components, what are they | The major metaphors and analogies, the concepts, the relationships between concepts, the mappings
What NOT are types of interaction | Discussing
What is the designer's model | The model the designer has of how the system should work
Decisions about conceptual design should be made after commencing any physical design, e.g. choosing menus, icons, and dialog boxes | False
Cognition is what goes on in our heads when we carry out our everyday activities | True
What are the design implications of "memory"? | Design interfaces that promote recognition rather than recall
What are the design implications of "memory"? | Do not overload users' memories with complicated procedures for carrying out tasks
What is NOT a design implication of "learning" | Design interface that is have many new interesting items to learn
What are NOT cognitive frameworks in interaction design | Image processing
What are NOT cognitive frameworks in interaction design | Internal cognition
According to Norman's theory of action, there are 7 stages of an activity. What is NOT one of them | None of the others
Using pen and paper to solve a math problem" is an example of | Computational offloading
What are the main benefits of conceptual frameworks and cognitive theories? | They can explain user interaction
What are the main benefits of conceptual frameworks and cognitive theories? | They can predict user performance
In describing a population, we conclude that the average person is 5 feet 11 inches tall, weighs 180 pounds, and is 45 years old. What analysis we have used | Quantitative
In describing a population, we conclude that the average person tall, thin, and middle-aged. What analysis we have used | Quantitative
What is NOT a data gathering method | None of the others
Storytelling is used extensively in interaction design both to communicate findings of investigate studies, and as the basis for further development such as product design or system enhancements | True
What are 3 kinds of average | Mean
What are 3 kinds of average | Median
What are 3 kinds of average | Mode
Qualitative data analysis may be framed by 3 theories. What are they | Grounded theory
Qualitative data analysis may be framed by 3 theories. What are they | Activity theory
Qualitative data analysis may be framed by 3 theories. What are they | Distributed cognition
Developers can gain a better understanding of users' goals, leading to a more appropriate, more usable product when we have who involving in the development process | Developers can gain a better understanding of users' goals, leading to a more appropriate, more usable product when we have who involving in the development process |  User
According to Gould and Lewis (1985), there are 3 principles that they believed would lead to a "useful and easy to use computer system". What are they? | Easy focus on users and tasks
According to Gould and Lewis (1985), there are 3 principles that they believed would lead to a "useful and easy to use computer system". What are they? | Empirical measurement
According to Gould and Lewis (1985), there are 3 principles that they believed would lead to a "useful and easy to use computer system". What are they? | Iterative design
What term is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | Lifecycle Model
What is RAD and JAD | Rapid Applications Development and Joint Application Development
After established requirements, you must understand who the users are and what their goals are in using the product. | After established requirements, you must understand who the users are and what their goals are in using the product. |  False
A requirement is a statement about an intended product that specifies what it should do or how it should perform | True
Aims of the requirement activity are to make the requirement | Specific
Aims of the requirement activity are to make the requirement | Ambiguous
Aims of the requirement activity are to make the requirement | Unambiguous
Observation of participant in their natural setting is | Direct observation
Diaries and interaction logging are used more often within the requirements activity | False
What is the approach that emerged from the ethnographic approach to data gathering | Contextual inquiry
Essential use - cases were developed to combat the limitations of both scenarios and use cases | True
Task analysis is used mainly to envision new products, not to investigate an existing situation | False
What is HTA | Hierarchical Task Analysis
What HTA involves | All of the others
What is meant by prototype | A full representation of a design that allows users
What is not the benefit of prototype | Show customer every functions of software
What is concerned with transforming needs and requirements into a conceptual model | Conceptual design
What are the key principles of conceptual design | Use low-fidelity prototyping to get rapid feedback
What are the key principles of conceptual design | Iterate, iterate, and iterate
Design is about making choices and decisions, and the designer must strive to balance environmental, user, data, and usability requirements with non-functional requirements | False
What is commonly used for expressing proposed or imagined situations to help in conceptual design | Scenario
A sequence of actions or events that the user and the system go through to achieve a task is called a | Storyboard
Choose the statements which are NOT correct in the following list | Low - fidelity prototypes may be vertical or horizontal
Choose the statements which are NOT correct in the following list | High - fidelity prototypes are quick and easy to produce and modify and are used in the early stages of design
What are the aspects of the design activity | Conceptual design
What are the aspects of the design activity | Physical design
Choose the correct statements in the following list: | Conceptual design develops an outline of what people can do with a product and what concepts are needed to understand how to interact with it.
Choose the correct statements in the following list: | Physical design specifies the details of the design such as screen layout and menu structure.
What are good reasons for investing in evaluation | The wide diversity of interactive products gives rise to a range of features that evaluators must be able to evaluate.
At what stage in the product lifecycle evaluation takes place depends on the type of product | True
What are not evaluation approaches | Usability studies
What are not evaluation approaches | Analytical testing
What are not evaluation approaches | Design evaluation
Evaluation and design are very closely integrated in user - centered design | True
In order to evaluate the wide range of products currently being developed, evaluators must be | True
The sequence of links on a web site are generally best evaluated in | Laboratory
Without evaluation, designer cannot be sure that their design is usable by the target user population, and that it is what users want. | True
What is an approach to evaluation that does not involve end - users | Analytical evaluation
What is a study that is done in a natural environment such as at home, as opposed to a study in a controlled setting such as a laboratory | Field studies
What is an approach to evaluation in which knowledge of typical users is applied, often guided by heuristics, to identify usability problems | Heuristic evaluation
What is an approach to evaluation in which theoretically based models are used to predict user performance? | Predictive evaluation
What is an evaluation that is done when the design is complete to assess whether it meets required standards? | Summative evaluation
What is an evaluation that involves users directly, either in their natural environment, or in the laboratory? | User studies
a. Usability laboratory | Usability study
What is an evaluation approach to evaluation that involves measuring users' performance and evaluating their satisfaction with the system in question on certain task in a laboratory setting | Usability testing
What is an evaluation approach where users are asked to perform certain tasks using a system or prototype in an informal or laboratory setting | User testing
What is a study that is performed in a laboratory which is controlled by the evaluator | Controlled experiment
Which is NOT one of interface types in HCI | End-user interface
Efficiency is the of usability goals? | True
Card-base prototype can be generated from use case output from the requirement activity | True`
Which goals are concerned with assessing how useful or productive a system is from its own perspective? | User experience goals
_____ is an evaluation that is done dunng design to check products meet requirement | Analytical evaluation
What is an evaluation approach where users are asked to perform certain tasks using a system or prototype in an informal or laboratory setting? | User testing
Arrange the steps of interaction design in the same order: 1. Developing design 2. Evaluating 3. Building interactive design 4. Identify needs | 4, 1, 3, 2
The current speaker chooses the next speaker by asking an opinion, question, or request is not one of rules of Sacks et al? | False
Which offering lists of options that could be scrolled through and selected? | Menus
Being good at displaying a small number of options at the same time and where the size of the display is small, e.g. iPods is one factors of? | A number of menu interface styles
Triangulation in data gathering is only one method for data recording, such as: notes, audios, videos. | True
The system should keep the user informed about what is taking place by using: | feedback
Evaluation is needed in | Checking users can use and like product or not
Sketching is not an example of low-fidelity prototype? | False
What's the field of usability engineering lifecycle? | Human Computer Interaction
A fundamental aspect of everyday life is being social - talking to one other? | True
Which is TRUE about Physical design: | All of above
Conversation can take a variety of forms? | True
What are the main evaluation methods? | All of the others
Reduced work load memory is NOT a design implication for supporting user's memory? | False
Which is not Shneiderman's guidelines for error messages include? | All of the others
Which of IRB form asks Are there any risk to the subject? | Risks and Benefits
Asking user, observing user, inspection method are | Main evaluation methods
Usability testing is | Measuring typical users' performance on typical tasks
One of similar ways of becoming aware and keeping aware take place in other contexts? | School
Designing usable interactive products requires considering ... 1. Who is going to be using them 2. What they are going to be used 3. How they are going to be used 4. Where they are going to be used | 1,3,4
In usability testing, field observations may be used to | provide contextual understanding.
Involving users in the design process helps with expectation management and feelings of ownership, but how and when to in | True
Why should we build prototypes in design process? | All of above
Which is emergent from data, dependent on observation framework if used | Recurring patterns or themes
The term 'affordance' refers to the relationship between the actor (for our purposes the user) and the world signifying possibility for action | TRUE
Which is NOT an example of asynchronous computer-mediated communication ? | All of above
Nielsen's heuristics: match between system and | real world
What is a study that is performed in a laboratory which is controlled by the evaluator? | Controlled experiment
Experiments test hypotheses to discover new knowledge by investigating the relationship between things | Two or more things
How many basic rules Sacks et al. (1978) work on conversation analysis describe? | 3
Xerox Star first WIMP and rise to______? | GUI
Windows were invented to overcome physical constraints of a computer display? | TRUE
is a process to attribute human qualities to objects. | Anthropomorphism
What is NOT a design implication of "learning"? | Design interface that is have many new interesting items to learn
Why do the designers evaluate their product? | All of above
By interaction design, we mean designing (a) products to support the way people (b) in their everyday and working lives."Fill in the blank (a), (b) with: | interactive, communicate
Choose the 4 basic activities in the process of interaction design in the list below: 1. Building interactive versions of the design 2. Making a design plan 3. Identifying needs and establishing requirements 4. Evaluating what is being built 5. Developing designs that meet requirements 6. Creating report about what has been built | 1, 3, 4, 5
What "Constraints" refer to? | Determining ways of restricting the kinds of user interaction that can take place at a given moment.
Quantitative data is data that is in the form of numbers, or that can easily be translated into numbers | True
In describing a population, we conclude that the average person is 5 feet 11 inches tall, weighs 180 pounds, and is 45 years old. What analysis we have used? | Quantitative
In describing a population, we conclude that the average person tall, thin, and middle-aged. What analysis we have used? | Quantitative
What is NOT a data gathering method? | None of the others
Audio recordings, notes, and video recordings are raw data of ... | A and C
Match the name and definitions of coding categories according to Strauss and Corbin (1998): 1. Open coding 2. Axial coding 3. Selective coding A. This is the process of systematically fleshing out categories and relating them to their subcategories B. This is the process through which categories, their properties, and dimensions are discovered in the data. C. This is the process of refining and integrating categories to form a larger theoretical scheme. | 1 - B, 2 - A, 3 - C
Qualitative data analysis may be framed by 3 theories. What are they? | Grounded theory
Qualitative data analysis may be framed by 3 theories. What are they? | Activity theory
Qualitative data analysis may be framed by 3 theories. What are they? | Distributed cognition
Although the focus of use - cases is specifically on the interaction between the user and a software system, the stress is still very much on the user's perspective, not the system's. | True
Essential use - cases were developed to combat the limitations of both scenarios and use cases. | True
Match the name and definition of prototyping types: 1. Low-fidelity prototyping 2. High-fidelity prototyping 3. Evolutionary prototyping 4. Throw away prototyping A. Does not look very much like the final product B. Uses the prototypes as stepping stones towards the final design C. Uses materials that would be expected to be in the final product, look more like the final thing. D. Involving a prototype into the final product | 1 - A; 2 - C; 3 - D; 4 - B
Choose the statements which are NOT correct in the following list: | Low - fidelity prototypes may be vertical or horizontal
Choose the statements which are NOT correct in the following list: | High - fidelity prototypes are quick and easy to produce and modify and are used in the early stages of design
At what stage in the product lifecycle evaluation takes place depends on the type of product. | True
What are not evaluation approaches? | Design evaluation and Analytical testing and Usability studies
Evaluation and design are very closely integrated in user - centered design. | True
Dealing with constraints, such as gaining access to users or accommodating users' routines, is an important skill for designer to develop. | False
Evaluation is a process for collecting information about users' or potential users' experiences when interacting with a prototype, computer system, or a design artifact, in order to improve its design. | True
In order to evaluate the wide range of products currently being developed, evaluators must be creative. | TrueThe sequence of links on a web site are generally best evaluated in |  Laboratory
What is an approach to evaluation that does not involve end - users? | Analytical evaluation
What is an approach to evaluation in which knowledge of typical users is applied, often guided by heuristics, to identify usability problems? | Heuristic evaluation
What is an evaluation that is performed to examine the usability of a design or system? | Usability study
What is an evaluation approach to evaluation that involves measuring users' performance and evaluating their satisfaction with the system in question on certain task in a laboratory setting? | Usability testing
Which of following is FALSE: Everything that has been learned through the iterated steps of prototyping and evaluation needn't be integrated to produce the final product. | Everything that has been learned through the iterated steps of prototyping and evaluation needn't be integrated to produce the final product.
Which of following is FALSE: C. Prototype are used for expressing proposed or imagined situations to help in conceptual design | Prototype are used for expressing proposed or imagined situations to help in conceptual design
How many cognitive fameworks: | 5
FATAL. ERROR . INVALID are the guideline for designing good error message ? | False
Asking user. observing user. inspection method are_.? | Main evaluation methods
Usability testing is._? | Measuring typical users' performance on typical tasks
When working with the DECIDE framework. it is common to: | Moving backwards and forwards between items
Which basic activity in Interaction Design is the process of determining the usability and acceptability of a product or a design? | Evaluating designs
Which kind of user involvement consistent. but loose touch with the rest of user group? | Long term
Which of IRB form asks "Are there any risk to the subject ?" | Risks and Benefits
Task analysis is an umbrella term that covers techniques for investigating cognitive processes and physical actions. at a high level of abstraction and in minute detail | True
They are fundamental activities that are recognized in all design EXCEPT: | Preparing the requirements
Mobiles have become pervasive. decreasingly used in all aspects of everyday and working life | True
What is an evaluation approach where users are asked to perform certain tasks using a system or prototype in an informal or laboratory setting? | user testing
Which is not Shneiderman's guidelines for error massages include? | All of the others
Deceptive. make people feel anxious. inferior or stupid? | True
Reduced work load memory is NOT a design implication for supporting users memory? | False
Arrange the steps of interaction design in the same order: | 4.1.3.2
'What is the range of errors that are possible using the product and what measures are there to permit users to recovery easily from them?". Which usability goal is this question for? | Safety
Being good at displaying a small number of options at the same time and where the size of the display is small. iPods one factors on | A number of menu interface styles
Designing usable interactive products requires considering | I.3.4
Evaluation is needed in._? | Checking users can use and like product or not
"What kinds of interface support have been provide to help users remember how to carry out tasks. especially for products and operations they use infrequently?". Which usability goal is this question for? | Memorability
ACM stands for ? | The Association for Computing Machinery
High-fidelity prototype uses materials expected in ...? | Final product
Wearable interface designed for more than one person to use? | False
Amusing to the designer but not the user is? | Gimmicks
Nintendo's Pocket Pikachu is designed to motivate children to be more physically active on a regular basis? | True
Anthropomorphism is the attribution of human qualities to objects? | True
In usability testing. field observations may be used to | provide contextual understanding.
Which is NOT coordinating mechanisms? | Overhearing and overseeing
Which can be designed to be compact and variably positioned on a screen? | Icon
Babble at IBM is developed by? | David Smith
What is a basic RAD lifecycle model of software development? | Project initiation, JAD workshops, Iterative design and build. Evaluate final system. Implementation review.
Functional requirements are used to describe what the product should do. | True
Most effective icons are similar ones | Similar ones
How many types of interaction designer can have with a product/system? | 4
Awareness not involved? | All of above
Which statement is incorrect about interaction types? | Instructing is a bad repetitive kinds of action performed on multiple object.
What is the order of 4 key issues of data gathering? | Goals, Triangulation, Participant relationship, Pilot
What is the order of 4 key issues of data gathering | Goals, Triangulation, Participant relationship, Pilot
Which is the second key issues of data gathering | Triangulation
Which is NOT a kind of inspection technique? | Predictive models
In which kind of data recording that more expensive, editing, mixing and analysis equipment needed. | None of the others
Which one of design principle refers to have the same interfaces to the all tasks? | Consistency
The techniques used may not be compatible with the goal of the study | False
According to Strauss and Corbin (1998), how many aspects of "coding" in grounded theory? | 3
Designing usable interactive products requires considering ... | 1,3,4
Which is not an example of low-fidelity prototype? | Prototyping with index cards
In which kind of data recording that analysis criterion is "Critical discussions can be identified" | Audio plus camera
Heuristics are based on common-sense knowledge and usability guidelines? | Yes
Which of the following advise us to follow platform conventions | Consistency and standards
Which is concerned with whether the evaluation method measures what it is intended to measure | Validity
Only one evaluation approach is used in evaluation study? | No
_____ is an approach to evaluation that does not involve end-users | Analytical evaluation
_____ has traditionally been about designing efficient and effective systems? | HCI
Performance requirements are used to describe what the product should do | False
Environmental requirements are used to describe what the product should do. | False
Why designer should not apply the George Miller's theory , theory of how much information people can remember, when designing the user interface? | People recognize things much better than being able to recall things.
Which is the third activity of interaction design | Building interactive versions of the designs
Initial processing steps of questionnaires is | Clean up data, Filter into different data sets
Functionality is the goal of interaction design? | False
Which is NOT the Bdker's roles that suggested for scenarios: | As a basis for the early design
Who said "My goal was to design Wufoo to feel like something Fisher Price would make."? | Kevin Hale. Wufoo director.
Which is NOT one of interface types in HCI: | End-User Interface
Card-base prototype can be generated from use case output from the requirement activity | True
Which of the following advise us to speak the user language, with word, phrase and concepts similar to the users | Match between system and the real world
Soaps are good to watch for observing non-verbal behavior as the actors often exaggerate their gestures and facial expressions to convey their emotion? | False
Which is NOT a type of task descriptions? | None of above
Usability engineering is software development lifecycle model? | False
_____ is an evaluation that is done during design to check products meet requirement | Formative evaluation
Which of following is TRUE: | Low-fidelity prototype is useful for identifying market requirements while High-fidelity prototype is not
Which of the following is true about Nielsen's heuristics: | Recognition rather than recall
What is interaction designed for more than one person to use? | Shareable interface
Everything that has been learned through the iterated steps of prototyping and evaluation needn't be integrated to produce the final product. | FALSE
Evolutionary prototyping involves evolving a prototype into the final product | TRUE
Throwaway prototyping uses the prototypes as stepping stones towards the final design | TRUE
If an evolutionary prototyping approach is to be taken, the prototypes should be subjected to rigorous testing along the way. | TRUE
Prototype are used for expressing proposed or imagined situations to help in conceptual design | FALSE
FATAL, ERROR, INVALID are the guideline for designing good error message ? | False
Which of following is FALSE: | Prototype are used for expressing proposed or imagined situations to help in conceptual design
Asking user, observing user, inspection method are.? | Investigating systems
Which is wrong. Expectation management is | Have surprises, have disappointments
When working with the DECIDE framework, it is common to: | Moving backwards and forwards between items
Task analysis is an umbrella term that covers techniques for investigating cognitive processes and physical actions, at a high level of abstraction and in minute detail. | TRUE
Which of IRB form asks "Are there any risk to the subject? | Risks and Benefits
Mobiles have become pervasive, decreasingly used in all aspects of every day and working life | False
Deceptive, make people feel anxious, inferior or stupid? | TRUE
Arrange the steps of interaction design in the same order: 1: Developing design 2: Evaluating 3: Building interactive design 4: Identify needs | 4.1.3.2
triangulation in data gathering is only one method for data recording, such as: notes, audios, videos, | False
Which is not emotion in Yahoo Messenger? | ==))))))
Being good at displaying a small number of options at the same time and where the size of the display is small, e.g. iPods is one factors of? | Flat menus
The current speaker chooses the next speaker by asking an opinion, question, or request is not one of rules of Sacks et al? | True
Designing usable interactive products requires considering ... 1.Who is going to be using them 2. What they are going to be used 3.How they are going to be used 4.Where they are going to be used | 1.3.4