Asking users: interviews 391 I prev , 5. A closing session in which the interviewer thanks the interviewee and switches off the recorder or puts her notebook away, signaling that the interview has ended| | If you are recording the interview, which is advisable, make sure your equipment works in advance and you know how to use it|
Asking users: interviews 391 I prev , 5. A closing session in which the interviewer thanks the interviewee and switches off the recorder or puts her notebook away, signaling that the interview has ended|last: | Record answers exactly; do not make cosmetic adjustments, correct, or change answers in any way. |
Asking users: interviews 391 I prev , 392 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 13.2.2 Unstructured interviews Open-ended or unstructured interviews are at one end of a spectrum of how much control the interviewer has on the process. They are more like conversations that focus on a particular topic and may often go into considerable depth. Questions posed by the interviewer are open, meaning that the format and content of answers is not predetermined. The interviewee is free to answer as fully or as briefly as she wishes. Both interviewer and interviewee can steer the interview. Thus one of the skills necessary for this type of interviewing is to make sure that answers to relevant questions are obtained. It is therefore advisable to be organized and have a plan of the main things to be covered. Going in without an agenda to accomplish a goal is not advisable, and should not to be confused with being open to new information and ideas| | 392 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 13.2.2 Unstructured interviews Open-ended or unstructured interviews are at one end of a spectrum of how much control the interviewer has on the process. They are more like conversations that focus on a particular topic and may often go into considerable depth. Questions posed by the interviewer are open, meaning that the format and content of answers is not predetermined. The interviewee is free to answer as fully or as briefly as she wishes. Both interviewer and interviewee can steer the interview. Thus one of the skills necessary for this type of interviewing is to make sure that answers to relevant questions are obtained. It is therefore advisable to be organized and have a plan of the main things to be covered. Going in without an agenda to accomplish a goal is not advisable, and should not to be confused with being open to new information and ideas|
Asking users: interviews 391 I prev , 392 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 13.2.2 Unstructured interviews Open-ended or unstructured interviews are at one end of a spectrum of how much control the interviewer has on the process. They are more like conversations that focus on a particular topic and may often go into considerable depth. Questions posed by the interviewer are open, meaning that the format and content of answers is not predetermined. The interviewee is free to answer as fully or as briefly as she wishes. Both interviewer and interviewee can steer the interview. Thus one of the skills necessary for this type of interviewing is to make sure that answers to relevant questions are obtained. It is therefore advisable to be organized and have a plan of the main things to be covered. Going in without an agenda to accomplish a goal is not advisable, and should not to be confused with being open to new information and ideas| | A benefit of unstructured interviews is that they generate rich data. Interviewees often mention things that the interviewer may not have considered and can be further explored. But this benefit often comes at a cost. A lot of unstructured data is generated, which can be very time-consuming and difficult to analyze. It is also impossible to replicate the process, since each interview takes on its own format|
Asking users: interviews 391 I prev , 392 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 13.2.2 Unstructured interviews Open-ended or unstructured interviews are at one end of a spectrum of how much control the interviewer has on the process. They are more like conversations that focus on a particular topic and may often go into considerable depth. Questions posed by the interviewer are open, meaning that the format and content of answers is not predetermined. The interviewee is free to answer as fully or as briefly as she wishes. Both interviewer and interviewee can steer the interview. Thus one of the skills necessary for this type of interviewing is to make sure that answers to relevant questions are obtained. It is therefore advisable to be organized and have a plan of the main things to be covered. Going in without an agenda to accomplish a goal is not advisable, and should not to be confused with being open to new information and ideas| | Typically in evaluation, there is no attempt to analyze these interviews in detail. Instead, the evaluator makes notes or records the session and then goes back later to note the main issues of interest|
Asking users: interviews 391 I prev , 392 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 13.2.2 Unstructured interviews Open-ended or unstructured interviews are at one end of a spectrum of how much control the interviewer has on the process. They are more like conversations that focus on a particular topic and may often go into considerable depth. Questions posed by the interviewer are open, meaning that the format and content of answers is not predetermined. The interviewee is free to answer as fully or as briefly as she wishes. Both interviewer and interviewee can steer the interview. Thus one of the skills necessary for this type of interviewing is to make sure that answers to relevant questions are obtained. It is therefore advisable to be organized and have a plan of the main things to be covered. Going in without an agenda to accomplish a goal is not advisable, and should not to be confused with being open to new information and ideas| | The main points to remember when conducting an unstructured interview are: Make sure you have an interview agenda that supports the study goals and questions (identified through the DECIDE framework)|
Asking users: interviews 391 I prev , 392 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 13.2.2 Unstructured interviews Open-ended or unstructured interviews are at one end of a spectrum of how much control the interviewer has on the process. They are more like conversations that focus on a particular topic and may often go into considerable depth. Questions posed by the interviewer are open, meaning that the format and content of answers is not predetermined. The interviewee is free to answer as fully or as briefly as she wishes. Both interviewer and interviewee can steer the interview. Thus one of the skills necessary for this type of interviewing is to make sure that answers to relevant questions are obtained. It is therefore advisable to be organized and have a plan of the main things to be covered. Going in without an agenda to accomplish a goal is not advisable, and should not to be confused with being open to new information and ideas|last: | Be prepared to follow new lines of enquiry that contribute to your agenda|
Asking users: interviews 391 I prev , 392 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 13.2.2 Unstructured interviews Open-ended or unstructured interviews are at one end of a spectrum of how much control the interviewer has on the process. They are more like conversations that focus on a particular topic and may often go into considerable depth. Questions posed by the interviewer are open, meaning that the format and content of answers is not predetermined. The interviewee is free to answer as fully or as briefly as she wishes. Both interviewer and interviewee can steer the interview. Thus one of the skills necessary for this type of interviewing is to make sure that answers to relevant questions are obtained. It is therefore advisable to be organized and have a plan of the main things to be covered. Going in without an agenda to accomplish a goal is not advisable, and should not to be confused with being open to new information and ideas|last: | Pay attention to ethical issues, particularly the need to get informed consent|
Asking users: interviews 391 I prev , 392 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 13.2.2 Unstructured interviews Open-ended or unstructured interviews are at one end of a spectrum of how much control the interviewer has on the process. They are more like conversations that focus on a particular topic and may often go into considerable depth. Questions posed by the interviewer are open, meaning that the format and content of answers is not predetermined. The interviewee is free to answer as fully or as briefly as she wishes. Both interviewer and interviewee can steer the interview. Thus one of the skills necessary for this type of interviewing is to make sure that answers to relevant questions are obtained. It is therefore advisable to be organized and have a plan of the main things to be covered. Going in without an agenda to accomplish a goal is not advisable, and should not to be confused with being open to new information and ideas| | Work on gaining acceptance and putting the interviewees at ease. For example, dress as they do and take the time to learn about their world|
Asking users: interviews 391 I prev , 392 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 13.2.2 Unstructured interviews Open-ended or unstructured interviews are at one end of a spectrum of how much control the interviewer has on the process. They are more like conversations that focus on a particular topic and may often go into considerable depth. Questions posed by the interviewer are open, meaning that the format and content of answers is not predetermined. The interviewee is free to answer as fully or as briefly as she wishes. Both interviewer and interviewee can steer the interview. Thus one of the skills necessary for this type of interviewing is to make sure that answers to relevant questions are obtained. It is therefore advisable to be organized and have a plan of the main things to be covered. Going in without an agenda to accomplish a goal is not advisable, and should not to be confused with being open to new information and ideas| | Respond with sympathy if appropriate, but be careful not to put ideas into the heads of respondents|
Asking users: interviews 391 I prev , 392 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 13.2.2 Unstructured interviews Open-ended or unstructured interviews are at one end of a spectrum of how much control the interviewer has on the process. They are more like conversations that focus on a particular topic and may often go into considerable depth. Questions posed by the interviewer are open, meaning that the format and content of answers is not predetermined. The interviewee is free to answer as fully or as briefly as she wishes. Both interviewer and interviewee can steer the interview. Thus one of the skills necessary for this type of interviewing is to make sure that answers to relevant questions are obtained. It is therefore advisable to be organized and have a plan of the main things to be covered. Going in without an agenda to accomplish a goal is not advisable, and should not to be confused with being open to new information and ideas|last: | Always indicate to the interviewee the beginning and end of the interview session|
Asking users: interviews 391 I prev , 392 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 13.2.2 Unstructured interviews Open-ended or unstructured interviews are at one end of a spectrum of how much control the interviewer has on the process. They are more like conversations that focus on a particular topic and may often go into considerable depth. Questions posed by the interviewer are open, meaning that the format and content of answers is not predetermined. The interviewee is free to answer as fully or as briefly as she wishes. Both interviewer and interviewee can steer the interview. Thus one of the skills necessary for this type of interviewing is to make sure that answers to relevant questions are obtained. It is therefore advisable to be organized and have a plan of the main things to be covered. Going in without an agenda to accomplish a goal is not advisable, and should not to be confused with being open to new information and ideas|last: | Start to order and analyze your data as soon as possible after the interview|
Asking users: interviews 391 I prev , 392 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 13.2.2 Unstructured interviews Open-ended or unstructured interviews are at one end of a spectrum of how much control the interviewer has on the process. They are more like conversations that focus on a particular topic and may often go into considerable depth. Questions posed by the interviewer are open, meaning that the format and content of answers is not predetermined. The interviewee is free to answer as fully or as briefly as she wishes. Both interviewer and interviewee can steer the interview. Thus one of the skills necessary for this type of interviewing is to make sure that answers to relevant questions are obtained. It is therefore advisable to be organized and have a plan of the main things to be covered. Going in without an agenda to accomplish a goal is not advisable, and should not to be confused with being open to new information and ideas| | Ananova is a virtual news reporter created by the British Press Association on the website www.ananova.com, which is similar to the picture in Figure 13.1. Viewers who wish to hear Ananova report the news must select from the menu beneath her picture and must have downloaded software that enables them to receive streaming video. Those who wish to read text may do so|
Asking users: interviews 391 I prev , 392 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 13.2.2 Unstructured interviews Open-ended or unstructured interviews are at one end of a spectrum of how much control the interviewer has on the process. They are more like conversations that focus on a particular topic and may often go into considerable depth. Questions posed by the interviewer are open, meaning that the format and content of answers is not predetermined. The interviewee is free to answer as fully or as briefly as she wishes. Both interviewer and interviewee can steer the interview. Thus one of the skills necessary for this type of interviewing is to make sure that answers to relevant questions are obtained. It is therefore advisable to be organized and have a plan of the main things to be covered. Going in without an agenda to accomplish a goal is not advisable, and should not to be confused with being open to new information and ideas| | The idea is that Ananova is a life-like, i.e., an 'anthropomorphic' news presenter. She is designed to speak, move her lips, and blink, and she has some human facial expressions. She reads news edited from news reports. Ananova's face, her voice tone, her hair, in fact everything about her was tested with users before the site was launched so that she would appeal to as many users as possible. She is fashionable and looks as though she is in her twenties or |
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* ,  | 13.2 Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* Home News Enteitainment Sport Budnaol: Weather VldeoRepor(r Going Out TV Gulde Sits Directory Ale* Web Search About Ananon, About Ananova What's happenmg In the newsroom Get tnvokd Why we're here How to Ananow on WAP Jobs at Ananova About the company Contan us New0 Entetiainment Sport Businem Feedback peopleHhouseus Wanted: PA to I If you enjoy organlsfr rn~ghr be just the pet asststant to our Man Comment Figure 1 3.1 Ananova.com showing Ananova, a virtual news presenter|
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* ,  | early thirties-presumably the age that market researchers determined fits the profile of the majority of users-and she is also designed to appeal to older people too|
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* ,  | To see Ananova in action, go to the website (www.annanova.com) and follow the directions for downloading the software. Alternatively you can do the activity by just looking at the figure and thinking about the questions|
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* ,  | (a) Suggest unstructured interview questions that seek opinions about whether Ananova improves the quality of the news service|
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* , last: | (b) Suggest ways of collecting the interview data|
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* , last: | (c) Identify practical and ethical issues that need to be considered|
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* ,  | (a) Possible questions include: Do you think Ananova reading the news is good? Is it better than having to read it yourself from a news bulletin? In what ways does having Ananova read the news influence your satisfaction with the service? (b) Taking notes might be cumbersome and distracting to the interviewee, and it would be easy to miss important points. An alternative is to audio record the session. Video recording is not needed as it isn't necessary to see the interviewee. However, it would be useful to have a camera at hand to take shots of the interface in case the interviewee wanted to refer to aspects of Ananova|
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* ,  | (c) The obvious practical issues are obtaining a cassette recorder, finding participants, scheduling times for the interviews and finding a quiet place to conduct them. Having |
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* , 394 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts a computer available for the interviewee to refer to is important. The ethical issues include telling the interviewees why you are doing the interviews and what you will do with the information, and guaranteeing them anonymity. An informed consent form may be needed| | 394 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts a computer available for the interviewee to refer to is important. The ethical issues include telling the interviewees why you are doing the interviews and what you will do with the information, and guaranteeing them anonymity. An informed consent form may be needed|
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* , 1 3.2.3 Structured interviews Structured interviews pose predetermined questions similar to those in a questionnaire (see Section 13.3). Structured interviews are useful when the study's goals are clearly understood and specific questions can be identified. To work best, the questions need to be short and clearly worded., Responses may involve selecting from a set of options that are read aloud or presented on paper. The questions should be refined by asking another evaluator to review them and by running a small pilot study| | 1 3.2.3 Structured interviews Structured interviews pose predetermined questions similar to those in a questionnaire (see Section 13.3). Structured interviews are useful when the study's goals are clearly understood and specific questions can be identified. To work best, the questions need to be short and clearly worded., Responses may involve selecting from a set of options that are read aloud or presented on paper. The questions should be refined by asking another evaluator to review them and by running a small pilot study|
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* , 1 3.2.3 Structured interviews Structured interviews pose predetermined questions similar to those in a questionnaire (see Section 13.3). Structured interviews are useful when the study's goals are clearly understood and specific questions can be identified. To work best, the questions need to be short and clearly worded., Responses may involve selecting from a set of options that are read aloud or presented on paper. The questions should be refined by asking another evaluator to review them and by running a small pilot study|last: | Typically the questions are closed, which means that they require a precise answer|
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* , 1 3.2.3 Structured interviews Structured interviews pose predetermined questions similar to those in a questionnaire (see Section 13.3). Structured interviews are useful when the study's goals are clearly understood and specific questions can be identified. To work best, the questions need to be short and clearly worded., Responses may involve selecting from a set of options that are read aloud or presented on paper. The questions should be refined by asking another evaluator to review them and by running a small pilot study|last: | The same questions are used with each participant so the study is standardized|
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* , 1 3.2.3 Structured interviews Structured interviews pose predetermined questions similar to those in a questionnaire (see Section 13.3). Structured interviews are useful when the study's goals are clearly understood and specific questions can be identified. To work best, the questions need to be short and clearly worded., Responses may involve selecting from a set of options that are read aloud or presented on paper. The questions should be refined by asking another evaluator to review them and by running a small pilot study| | Semi-structured interviews Semi-structured interviews combine features of structured and unstructured interviews and use both closed and open questions. For consistency the interviewer has a basic script for guidance, so that the same topics are covered with each interviewee|
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* , 1 3.2.3 Structured interviews Structured interviews pose predetermined questions similar to those in a questionnaire (see Section 13.3). Structured interviews are useful when the study's goals are clearly understood and specific questions can be identified. To work best, the questions need to be short and clearly worded., Responses may involve selecting from a set of options that are read aloud or presented on paper. The questions should be refined by asking another evaluator to review them and by running a small pilot study| | The interviewer starts with preplanned questions and then probes the interviewee to say more until no new relevant information is forthcoming. For example: Which websites do you visit most frequently? <Answer> Why? <Answer mentions several but stresses that she prefers hottestmusic.com> And why do you like it? <Answer> Tell me more about x? <silence, followed by an answer> Anything else? <Answer> Thanks. Are there any other reasons that you haven't mentioned? It is important not to preempt an answer by phrasing a question to suggest that a particular answer is expected. For example, "You seemed to like this use of color . . ." assumes that this is the case and will probably encourage the interviewee to answer that this is true so as not to offend the interviewer. Children are particularly prone to behave in this way. The body language of the interviewer, for example, whether she is smiling, scowling, looking disapproving, etc., can have a strong influence|
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* , 1 3.2.3 Structured interviews Structured interviews pose predetermined questions similar to those in a questionnaire (see Section 13.3). Structured interviews are useful when the study's goals are clearly understood and specific questions can be identified. To work best, the questions need to be short and clearly worded., Responses may involve selecting from a set of options that are read aloud or presented on paper. The questions should be refined by asking another evaluator to review them and by running a small pilot study| | Also the interviewer needs to accommodate silences and not to move on too quickly. Give the person time to speak. Probes are a device for getting more information, especially neutral probes such as, "Do you want to tell me anything else?" You may also prompt the person to help her along. For example, if the interviewee is talking about a computer interface but has forgotten the name of a key menu item, you might want to remind her so that the interview can proceed productively|
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* , 1 3.2.3 Structured interviews Structured interviews pose predetermined questions similar to those in a questionnaire (see Section 13.3). Structured interviews are useful when the study's goals are clearly understood and specific questions can be identified. To work best, the questions need to be short and clearly worded., Responses may involve selecting from a set of options that are read aloud or presented on paper. The questions should be refined by asking another evaluator to review them and by running a small pilot study| | However, semi-structured interviews are intended to be broadly replicable, so probing and prompting should aim to help the interview along without introducing bias|
Asking users: interviews 393 @ Amo* , 1 3.2.3 Structured interviews Structured interviews pose predetermined questions similar to those in a questionnaire (see Section 13.3). Structured interviews are useful when the study's goals are clearly understood and specific questions can be identified. To work best, the questions need to be short and clearly worded., Responses may involve selecting from a set of options that are read aloud or presented on paper. The questions should be refined by asking another evaluator to review them and by running a small pilot study| | rite a semi-structured interview script to evaluate whether receiving news from Ananova appealing and whether Ananova's presentation is realistic. Show two of your peers the |
Asking users: interviews 395 Ananov ,  | 13.2 Asking users: interviews 395 Ananova.com website or Figure 13.1. Then ask them to comment on your interview script|
Asking users: interviews 395 Ananov , last: | Refine the questions based on their comments|
Asking users: interviews 395 Ananov ,  | Comment You can use questions that have a predetermined set of answer choices. These work well for fast interviews when the range of answers is known, as in the airport studies where people tend to be in a rush. Alternatively, open-ended questions can also be used if you want to explore the range of opinions|
Asking users: interviews 395 Ananov ,  | Some questions that you might ask include: Have you seen Ananova before? Would you like to receive news from Ananova? Why? In your opinion, does Ananova look like a real person? Some of the questions in Exercise 13.2 have a predetermined range of answers, such as "yes," "no," "maybe." Others, such as the one about interviewees' attitudes, do not have an easily predicted range of responses. But it would help us in collecting answers if we list possible responses together with boxes that can just be checked (i.e., ticked). Here's how we could convert the questions from Activity 13.2|
Asking users: interviews 395 Ananov ,  | Have you seen Ananova before? (Explore previous knowledge) Interviewer checks box Yes No Don't remembedknow Would you like to receive news from Ananova? (Explore initial reaction, then explore the response) Interviewer checks box Yes No Don't know Why? If response is "Yes" or "No," interviewer says, "Which of the following statements represents your feelings best?" For "Yes, " Interviewer checks the box I don't like typing This is furdcool I've never seen a system like this before It's going to be the way of the future Another reason (Interviewer notes the reason) For "No," Interviewer checks the box I don't like speech systems I don't like systems that pretend to be people It's faster to read I can't control the pace of presentation I can't be bothered to download the sofrware Another reason (Interviewer notes the reason) In your opinion, does Ananova look like a real person? Interviewer checks box R Yes, she looks like a real person No, she doesn't look like a real person |
Asking users: interviews 395 Ananov ,  | I 396 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts As you can probably guess, there are problems deciding on the range of possible answers. Maybe you thought of other ones. In order to get a good range of answers for the second question, a large number of people would have to be interviewed before the questionnaire is constructed to identify all the possible answers and then those could be used to determine what should be offered|
Asking users: interviews 395 Ananov ,  | Write three or four semi-structured interview questions to find out if Ananova is popular with your friends. Make the questions general|
Asking users: interviews 395 Ananov ,  | Comment Here are some suggestions: (a) Would you listen to the news using Ananova? If yes, then ask, why? If no, then ask, why not? (b) Is Ananova's appearance attractive to you? If yes, then say, Tell me more, what did you like? If no, then say, What don't you find attractive? 1 (c) Is there anything else you want to say about Ananova? I Prepare the full interview script to evaluate Ananova, including a description of why you are doing the interview, and an informed consent form, and the exact questions. Use the DECIDE framework for guidance. Practice the interview on your own, audiotape yourself, and then listen to it and review your performance. Then interview two peers and be reflective|
Asking users: interviews 395 Ananov ,  | What did you learn from the experience? Comment You probably found it harder than you thought to interview smoothly and consistently. Did you notice an improvement when you did the second interview? Were some of the questions poorly worded. Piloting your interview often reveals poor or ambiguous questions that you then have a chance to refine before holding the first proper interview|
Asking users: interviews 395 Ananov ,  | Group interviews One form of group interview is the focus group that is frequently used in marketing, political campaigning, and social sciences research. Normally three to 10 people are involved. Participants are selected to provide a representative sample of typical users; they normally share certain characteristics. For example, in an evaluation of a university website, a group of administrators, faculty, and students may be called to form three separate focus groups because they use the web for different purposes|
Asking users: interviews 395 Ananov ,  | The benefit of a focus group is that it allows diverse or sensitive issues to be raised that would otherwise be missed. The method assumes that individuals develop opinions within a social context by talking with others. Often questions posed to focus groups seem deceptively simple but the idea is to enable people to put forward their own opinions in a supportive environment. A preset agenda is developed to guide the discussion but there is sufficient flexibility for a facilitator to |
Asking users: interviews 397 follow ,  | 13.2 Asking users: interviews 397 follow unanticipated issues as they are raised. The facilitator guides and prompts discussion and skillfully encourages quiet people to participate and stops verbose ones from dominating the discussion. The discussion is usually recorded for later analysis in which participants my be invited to explain their comments more fully|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow ,  | Focus groups appear to have high validity because the method is readily understood and findings appear believable (Marshall and Rossman, 1999). Focus groups are also attractive because they are low-cost, provide quick results, and can easily be scaled to gather more data. Disadvantages are that the facilitator needs to be skillful so that time is not wasted on irrelevant issues. It can also be difficult to get people together in a suitable location. Getting time with any interviewees can be difficult, but the problem is compounded with focus groups because of the number of people involved|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow ,  | For example, in a study to evaluate a university website the evaluators did not expect that getting participants would be a problem. However, the study was scheduled near the end of a semester when students had to hand in their work, so strong incentives were needed to entice the students to participate in the study. It took an increase in the participation fee and a good lunch to convince students to participate|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 1 3.2.6 Other sources of interview-li ke feedback Telephone interviews are a good way of interviewing people with whom you cannot meet. You cannot see body language, but apart from this telephone interviews have much in common with face-to-face interviews| | 1 3.2.6 Other sources of interview-li ke feedback Telephone interviews are a good way of interviewing people with whom you cannot meet. You cannot see body language, but apart from this telephone interviews have much in common with face-to-face interviews|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 1 3.2.6 Other sources of interview-li ke feedback Telephone interviews are a good way of interviewing people with whom you cannot meet. You cannot see body language, but apart from this telephone interviews have much in common with face-to-face interviews| | Online interviews, using either asynchronous communication as in email or synchronous communication as in chats, can also be used. For interviews that involve sensitive issues, answering questions anonymously may be preferable to meeting face to face. If, however, face to face meetings are desirable but impossible because of geographical distance, video-conferencing systems can be used (but remember the drawbacks discussed in Chapter 4). Feedback about a product can also be obtained from customer help lines, consumer groups, and online customer communities that provide help and support|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 1 3.2.6 Other sources of interview-li ke feedback Telephone interviews are a good way of interviewing people with whom you cannot meet. You cannot see body language, but apart from this telephone interviews have much in common with face-to-face interviews|last: | At various stages of design, it is useful to get quick feedback from a few users|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 1 3.2.6 Other sources of interview-li ke feedback Telephone interviews are a good way of interviewing people with whom you cannot meet. You cannot see body language, but apart from this telephone interviews have much in common with face-to-face interviews| | These short interviews are often more like conversations in which users are asked their opinions. Retrospective interviews can be done when doing field studies to check with participants that the interviewer has correctly understood what was happening. |
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 398 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 13.2.7 Data analysis and interpretation Analysis of unstructured interviews can be time-consuming, though their contents can be rich. Typically each interview question is examined in depth in a similar way to observation data discussed in Chapter 12. A coding form may be developed, which may be predetermined or may be developed during data collection as evaluators are exposed to the range of issues and learn about their relative importance| | 398 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 13.2.7 Data analysis and interpretation Analysis of unstructured interviews can be time-consuming, though their contents can be rich. Typically each interview question is examined in depth in a similar way to observation data discussed in Chapter 12. A coding form may be developed, which may be predetermined or may be developed during data collection as evaluators are exposed to the range of issues and learn about their relative importance|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 398 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 13.2.7 Data analysis and interpretation Analysis of unstructured interviews can be time-consuming, though their contents can be rich. Typically each interview question is examined in depth in a similar way to observation data discussed in Chapter 12. A coding form may be developed, which may be predetermined or may be developed during data collection as evaluators are exposed to the range of issues and learn about their relative importance| | Alternatively, comments may be clustered along themes and anonymous quotes used to illustrate points of interest. Tools such a NUDIST and Ethnograph can be useful for qualitative analyses as mentioned in Chapter 12. Which type of analysis is done depends on the goals of the study, as does whether the whole interview is transcribed, only part of it, or none of it. Data from structured interviews is usually analyzed quantitatively as in questionnaires which we discuss next|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 1 3.3 Asking users: questionnaires Questionnaires are a well-established technique for collecting demographic data and users' opinions. They are similar to interviews and can have closed or open questions. Effort and skill are needed to ensure that questions are clearly worded and the data collected can be analyzed efficiently. Questionnaires can be used on their own or in conjunction with other methods to clarify or deepen understanding| | 1 3.3 Asking users: questionnaires Questionnaires are a well-established technique for collecting demographic data and users' opinions. They are similar to interviews and can have closed or open questions. Effort and skill are needed to ensure that questions are clearly worded and the data collected can be analyzed efficiently. Questionnaires can be used on their own or in conjunction with other methods to clarify or deepen understanding|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 1 3.3 Asking users: questionnaires Questionnaires are a well-established technique for collecting demographic data and users' opinions. They are similar to interviews and can have closed or open questions. Effort and skill are needed to ensure that questions are clearly worded and the data collected can be analyzed efficiently. Questionnaires can be used on their own or in conjunction with other methods to clarify or deepen understanding| | In the Hutchworld study discussed in Chapter 10, for example, you read how questionnaires were used along with observation and usability testing. The methods and questions used depends on the context, interviewees and so on|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 1 3.3 Asking users: questionnaires Questionnaires are a well-established technique for collecting demographic data and users' opinions. They are similar to interviews and can have closed or open questions. Effort and skill are needed to ensure that questions are clearly worded and the data collected can be analyzed efficiently. Questionnaires can be used on their own or in conjunction with other methods to clarify or deepen understanding| | The questions asked in a questionnaire, and those used in a structured interview are similar, so how do you know when to use which technique? One advantage of questionnaires is that they can be distributed to a large number of people|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 1 3.3 Asking users: questionnaires Questionnaires are a well-established technique for collecting demographic data and users' opinions. They are similar to interviews and can have closed or open questions. Effort and skill are needed to ensure that questions are clearly worded and the data collected can be analyzed efficiently. Questionnaires can be used on their own or in conjunction with other methods to clarify or deepen understanding| | Used in this way, they provide evidence of wide general opinion. On the other hand, structured interviews are easy and quick to conduct in situations in which people will not stop to complete a questionnaire|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 1 3.3 Asking users: questionnaires Questionnaires are a well-established technique for collecting demographic data and users' opinions. They are similar to interviews and can have closed or open questions. Effort and skill are needed to ensure that questions are clearly worded and the data collected can be analyzed efficiently. Questionnaires can be used on their own or in conjunction with other methods to clarify or deepen understanding| | Designing questionnaires Many questionnaires start by asking for basic demographic information (e.g., gender, age) and details of user experience (e.g., the time or number of years spent using computers, level of expertise, etc.). This background information is useful in finding out the range within the sample group. For instance, a group of people who are using the web for the first time are likely to express different opinions to another group with five years of web experience. From knowing the sample range, a designer might develop two different versions or veer towards the needs of one of the groups more because it represents the target audience|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 1 3.3 Asking users: questionnaires Questionnaires are a well-established technique for collecting demographic data and users' opinions. They are similar to interviews and can have closed or open questions. Effort and skill are needed to ensure that questions are clearly worded and the data collected can be analyzed efficiently. Questionnaires can be used on their own or in conjunction with other methods to clarify or deepen understanding| | Following the general questions, specific questions that contribute to the evaluation goal are asked. If the questionnaire is long, the questions may be subdivided into related topics to make it easier and more logical to complete|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 1 3.3 Asking users: questionnaires Questionnaires are a well-established technique for collecting demographic data and users' opinions. They are similar to interviews and can have closed or open questions. Effort and skill are needed to ensure that questions are clearly worded and the data collected can be analyzed efficiently. Questionnaires can be used on their own or in conjunction with other methods to clarify or deepen understanding| | Box 13.1 contains an excerpt from a paper questionnaire designed to evaluate users' satisfaction with some specific features of a prototype website for career changers aged 34-59 years. |
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 400 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts The following is a checklist of general advice for designing a questionnaire: Make questions clear and specific| | 400 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts The following is a checklist of general advice for designing a questionnaire: Make questions clear and specific|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 400 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts The following is a checklist of general advice for designing a questionnaire: Make questions clear and specific|last: | When possible, ask closed questions and offer a range of answers|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 400 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts The following is a checklist of general advice for designing a questionnaire: Make questions clear and specific|last: | Consider including a "no-opinion" option for questions that seek opinions|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 400 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts The following is a checklist of general advice for designing a questionnaire: Make questions clear and specific| | Think about the ordering of questions. The impact of a question can be influenced by question order. General questions should precede specific ones|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 400 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts The following is a checklist of general advice for designing a questionnaire: Make questions clear and specific|last: | Avoid complex multiple questions|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 400 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts The following is a checklist of general advice for designing a questionnaire: Make questions clear and specific|last: | When scales are used, make sure the range is appropriate and does not overlap|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 400 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts The following is a checklist of general advice for designing a questionnaire: Make questions clear and specific| | Make sure that the ordering of scales (discussed below) is intuitive and consistent, and be careful with using negatives. For example, it is more intuitive in a scale of 1 to 5 for 1 to indicate low agreement and 5 to indicate high agreement. Also be consistent. For example, avoid using 1 as low on some scales and then as high on others. A subtler problem occurs when most questions are phrased as positive statements and a few are phrased as negatives|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 400 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts The following is a checklist of general advice for designing a questionnaire: Make questions clear and specific| | However, advice on this issue is more controversial as some evaluators argue that changing the direction of questions helps to check the users' intentions|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 400 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts The following is a checklist of general advice for designing a questionnaire: Make questions clear and specific|last: | Scales such as those used in Box 13.1 are also preferred by some evaluators|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 400 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts The following is a checklist of general advice for designing a questionnaire: Make questions clear and specific| | Avoid jargon and consider whether you need different versions of the questionnaire for different populations|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 400 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts The following is a checklist of general advice for designing a questionnaire: Make questions clear and specific| | Provide clear instructions on how to complete the questionnaire. For example, if you want a check put in one of the boxes, then say so. Questionnaires can make their message clear with careful wording and good typography|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 400 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts The following is a checklist of general advice for designing a questionnaire: Make questions clear and specific| | A balance must be struck between using white space and the need to keep the questionnaire as compact as possible. Long questionnaires cost more and deter participation|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 1 3.3.2 Question and response format Different types of questions require different types of responses. Sometimes discrete responses are required, such as "Yes" or "No." For other questions it is better to ask users to locate themselves within a range. Still others require a single preferred opinion. selecting the most appropriate makes it easier for respondents to be able to answer. Furthermore, questions that accept a specific answer can be categorized more easily. Some commonly used formats are described below| | 1 3.3.2 Question and response format Different types of questions require different types of responses. Sometimes discrete responses are required, such as "Yes" or "No." For other questions it is better to ask users to locate themselves within a range. Still others require a single preferred opinion. selecting the most appropriate makes it easier for respondents to be able to answer. Furthermore, questions that accept a specific answer can be categorized more easily. Some commonly used formats are described below|
Asking users: interviews 397 follow , 1 3.3.2 Question and response format Different types of questions require different types of responses. Sometimes discrete responses are required, such as "Yes" or "No." For other questions it is better to ask users to locate themselves within a range. Still others require a single preferred opinion. selecting the most appropriate makes it easier for respondents to be able to answer. Furthermore, questions that accept a specific answer can be categorized more easily. Some commonly used formats are described below| | Check boxes and ranges The range of answers to demographic questionnaires is predictable. Gender, for example, has two options, male or female, so providing two boxes and asking respondents to check the appropriate one, or circle a response, makes sense for collecting this information (as in Box 13.1). A similar approach can be adopted if |
Asking users: questionnaires 401 de ,  | 13.3 Asking users: questionnaires 401 details of age are needed. But since some people do not like to give their exact age, many questionnaires ask respondents to specify their age as a range (Box 13.1). A common design error arises when the ranges overlap. For example, specifying two ranges as 15-20,20-25 will cause confusion: which box do people who are 20 years old check? Making the ranges 14-19,20-24 avoids this problem|
Asking users: questionnaires 401 de ,  | A frequently asked question about ranges is whether the interval must be equal in all cases. The answer is that it depends on what you want to know. For example, if you want to collect information for the design of an e-commerce site to sell life insurance, the target population is going to be mostly people with jobs in the age range of, say, 21-65 years. You could, therefore, have just three ranges: under 21,2145 and over 65. In contrast, if you are interested in looking at ten-year cohort groups for people over 21 the following ranges would be best: under 21, 22-31,3241, etc|
Asking users: questionnaires 401 de ,  | There are a number of different types of rating scales that can be used, each with its own purpose (see Oppenheim, 1992). Here we describe two commonly used scales, Likert and semantic differential scales|
Asking users: questionnaires 401 de ,  | The purpose of these is to elicit a range of responses to a question that can be compared across respondents. They are good for getting people to make judgments about things, e.g. how easy, how usable etc., and therefore are important for usability studies|
Asking users: questionnaires 401 de ,  | Likert scales rely on identifying a set of statements representing a range of possible opinions, while semantic differential scales rely on choosing pairs of words that represent the range of possible opinions. Likert scales are the most commonly used scales because identifying suitable statements that respondents will understand is easier than identifying semantic pairs that respondents interpret as intended|
Asking users: questionnaires 401 de ,  | Li kert Scales Likert scales are used for measuring opinions, attitudes, and beliefs, and consequently they are widely used for evaluating user satisfaction with products as in the Hutchworld evaluation described in Chapter 10. For example, users' opinions about the use of color in a website could be evaluated with a Likert scale using a range of numbers (1) or with words (2): (1) The use of color is excellent: (where 1 represents strongly agree and 5 represents strongly disagree) 1 2 3 4 5 0 17 17 (2) The use of color is excellent: strongly strongly agree agree OK disagree disagree 0 no 0 0 Below are some steps for designing Likert scales: Gather a pool of short statements about the features of the product that are to be evaluated e.g., "This control panel is easy to use." A brainstorming |
Asking users: questionnaires 401 de , 402 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts I session with peers in which you examine the product to be evaluated is a good way of doing this| | 402 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts I session with peers in which you examine the product to be evaluated is a good way of doing this|
Asking users: questionnaires 401 de , 402 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts I session with peers in which you examine the product to be evaluated is a good way of doing this| | Divide the items into groups with about the same number of positive and negative statements in each group. Some evaluators prefer to have all negative or all positive questions, while others use a mix of positive and negative questions, as we have suggested here. Deciding whether to phrase the questionnaire positively or negatively depends partly on the complexity of the questionnaire and partly on the evaluator's preferences. The designers of QUIS (Box 13.2) (Chin et al., 1988), for example, decided not to mix negative and positive statements because the questionnaire was already complex enough without forcing participants to pay attention to the direction of the argument|
Asking users: questionnaires 401 de , 402 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts I session with peers in which you examine the product to be evaluated is a good way of doing this| | Decide on the scale. QUIS (Box 13.2) uses a 9-point scale, and because it is a general questionnaire that will be used with a wide variety of products it also includes NIA (not applicable,) as a category. Many questionnaires use 7- or 5-point scales and there are also 3-point scales. Arguments for the number of points go both ways. Advocates of long scales argue that they help to show discrimination, as advocated by the QUIS team (Chin et al., 1988). Rating features on an interface is more difficult for most people than, say, selecting I among different flavors of ice cream, and when the task is difficult there is I evidence to show that people "hedge their bets." Rather than selecting the I poles of the scales if there is no right or wrong, respondents tend to select I values nearer the center. The counter-argument is that people cannot be expected to discern accurately among points on a large scale, so any scale of more than five points is unnecessarily difficult to use|
Asking users: questionnaires 401 de , 402 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts I session with peers in which you examine the product to be evaluated is a good way of doing this| | Another aspect to consider is whether the scale should have an even or odd number of points. An odd number provides a clear central point. On the |
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot ,  | 13.3 Asking users: questionnaires 403 other hand, an even number forces participants to make a decision and prevents them from sitting on the fence|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot , last: | Select items for the final questionnaire and reword as necessary to make them clear|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot ,  | Semantic differential scales Semantic differential scales are used less frequently than Likert scales. They explore a range of bipolar attitudes about a particular item. Each pair of attitudes is represented as a pair of adjectives. The participant is asked to place a cross in one of a number of positions between the two extremes to indicate agreement with the poles, as shown in Figure 13.2. The score for the evaluation is found by summing the scores for each bipolar pair. Scores can then be computed across groups of participants|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot ,  | Notice that in this example the poles are mixed so that good and bad features are distributed on the right and the left. In this example there are seven positions on the scale|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot ,  | Instructions: for each pair of adjectives, place a cross at the point between them that reflects the extent to which you believe the adjectives describe the home page. You should place only one cross between the marks on each line|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot ,  | Attractive 1 I I I I I I I ugly Clear I I I I I I I I Confusing Dull I I I I I I I I Colorful Exciting I I I I I I I I Boring Annoying 1 I I I I I I J Pleasing Helpful I I I I I I I I Unhelpful Poor I I I I I I I I Well designed Figure 13.2 An example of a semantic differential scale|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot , last: | Spot the four poorly designed features in Figure 13.3|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot ,  | Comment Some of the features that could be improved include: Request for exact age. Many people prefer not to give this information and would rather position themselves in a range|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot ,  | Years of experience is indicated with overlapping scales, i.e., <I, 1-3,3-5, etc. How do you answer if you have 1,3, or 5 years of experience? The questionnaire doesn't tell you whether you should check one, two, or as many boxes as you wish|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot ,  | The space left for people to write their own information is too small, and this will annoy them and deter them from giving their opinions. |
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot , 404 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 2. State your age in years 3. How long have you used the Internet? <1 year (check one only) 1-3 years 3-5 years s5 years 4. Do you use the Web to: purchase goods fl send e-mail visit chatrooms rn use bulletin boards find information read the news I 5. How useful is the Internet to you? I Figure 13.3 A questionnaire with poorly designed features| | 404 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 2. State your age in years 3. How long have you used the Internet? <1 year (check one only) 1-3 years 3-5 years s5 years 4. Do you use the Web to: purchase goods fl send e-mail visit chatrooms rn use bulletin boards find information read the news I 5. How useful is the Internet to you? I Figure 13.3 A questionnaire with poorly designed features|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot , 1 3.3.3 Administering questionnaires Two important issues when using questionnaires are reaching a representative sample of participants and ensuring a reasonable response rate. For large surveys, potential respondents need to be selected using a sampling technique| | 1 3.3.3 Administering questionnaires Two important issues when using questionnaires are reaching a representative sample of participants and ensuring a reasonable response rate. For large surveys, potential respondents need to be selected using a sampling technique|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot , 1 3.3.3 Administering questionnaires Two important issues when using questionnaires are reaching a representative sample of participants and ensuring a reasonable response rate. For large surveys, potential respondents need to be selected using a sampling technique| | However, interaction designers tend to use small numbers of participants, often fewer than twenty users. One hundred percent completion rates often are achieved with these small samples, but with larger, more remote populations, ensuring that surveys are returned is a well-known problem. Forty percent return is generally acceptable for many surveys but much lower rates are common|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot , 1 3.3.3 Administering questionnaires Two important issues when using questionnaires are reaching a representative sample of participants and ensuring a reasonable response rate. For large surveys, potential respondents need to be selected using a sampling technique| | Some ways of encouraging a good response include: Ensuring the questionnaire is well designed so that participants do not get annoyed and give up|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot , 1 3.3.3 Administering questionnaires Two important issues when using questionnaires are reaching a representative sample of participants and ensuring a reasonable response rate. For large surveys, potential respondents need to be selected using a sampling technique| | Providing a short overview section, as in QUIS (Box 13.2), and telling respondents to complete just the short version if they do not have time to complete the whole thing. This ensures that you get something useful returned|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot , 1 3.3.3 Administering questionnaires Two important issues when using questionnaires are reaching a representative sample of participants and ensuring a reasonable response rate. For large surveys, potential respondents need to be selected using a sampling technique|last: | Including a stamped, self-addressed envelope for its return|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot , 1 3.3.3 Administering questionnaires Two important issues when using questionnaires are reaching a representative sample of participants and ensuring a reasonable response rate. For large surveys, potential respondents need to be selected using a sampling technique|last: | Explaining why you need the questionnaire to be completed and assuring anonymity|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot , 1 3.3.3 Administering questionnaires Two important issues when using questionnaires are reaching a representative sample of participants and ensuring a reasonable response rate. For large surveys, potential respondents need to be selected using a sampling technique|last: | Contacting respondents through a follow-up letter, phone call or email|
Asking users: questionnaires 403 ot , 1 3.3.3 Administering questionnaires Two important issues when using questionnaires are reaching a representative sample of participants and ensuring a reasonable response rate. For large surveys, potential respondents need to be selected using a sampling technique|last: | Offering incentives such as payments. |
Asking users: questionnaires 405 1  ,  | 13.3 Asking users: questionnaires 405 1 3.3.4 Online questionnaires I Online questionnaires are becoming increasingly common because they are effective for reaching large numbers of people quickly and easily. There are two types: email and web-based. The main advantage of email is that you can target specific users. However, email questionnaires are usually limited to text, whereas webbased questionnaires are more flexible and can include check boxes, pull-down and pop-up menus, help screens, and graphics (Figure 13.4). web-based questionnaires can also provide immediate data validation and can enforce rules such as select only one response, or certain types of answers such as numerical, which cannot be done in email or with paper. Other advantages of online questionnaires include (Lazar and Preece, 1999): Responses are usually received quickly. 1 Copying and postage costs are lower than for paper surveys or often nonexistent|
Asking users: questionnaires 405 1  , last: | I Data can be transferred immediately into a database for analysis|
Asking users: questionnaires 405 1  , last: | The time required for data analysis is reduced|
Asking users: questionnaires 405 1  ,  | Errors in questionnaire design can be corrected easily (though it is better to avoid them in the first place)|
Asking users: questionnaires 405 1  ,  | A big problem with web-based questionnaires is obtaining a random sample of respondents. Few other disadvantages have been reported with online questionnaires, but there is some evidence suggesting that response rates may be lower online than with paper questionnaires (Witmer et al., 1999)|
Asking users: questionnaires 405 1  , last: | Figure 13.4 An excerpt from a web-based questionnaire showing pull-down menus. |
Asking users: questionnaires 405 1  , 406 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Developing a web-based questionnaire I Developing a successful web-based questionnaire involves designing it on paper, developing strategies for reaching the target population, and then turning the paper version into a web-based version (Lazar and Preece, 1999)| | 406 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Developing a web-based questionnaire I Developing a successful web-based questionnaire involves designing it on paper, developing strategies for reaching the target population, and then turning the paper version into a web-based version (Lazar and Preece, 1999)|
Asking users: questionnaires 405 1  , 406 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Developing a web-based questionnaire I Developing a successful web-based questionnaire involves designing it on paper, developing strategies for reaching the target population, and then turning the paper version into a web-based version (Lazar and Preece, 1999)| | It is important to devise the questionnaire on paper first, following the general guidelines introduced above, such as paying attention to the clarity and consistency of the questions, questionnaire layout, and so on. Only once the questionnaire has been reviewed and the questions refined adequately should it be translated into a web-based version. If reaching your target population is an issue, e.g., if some of them may not have access to the web, the paper version may be administered to them, but be careful to maintain consistency between the web-based version and the original paper version|
Asking users: questionnaires 405 1  , 406 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Developing a web-based questionnaire I Developing a successful web-based questionnaire involves designing it on paper, developing strategies for reaching the target population, and then turning the paper version into a web-based version (Lazar and Preece, 1999)| | Identifying a random sample of a population so that the results are indicative of the whole population may be difficult, if not impossible, to achieve especially if the size and demography of the population is not known, as is often the case in Internet research. This has been a criticism of several online surveys including Georgia Tech's GVU survey, one of the first online surveys. This survey collects demographic and activity information from Internet users and has been distributed I twice yearly since 1994. The policy that GVU employs to deal with this difficult sampling issue is to make as many people aware of the GVU survey as possible so that a wide variety of participants are encouraged to participate. However, even these efforts do not avoid biased sampling, since participants are self-selecting. Indeed, some survey experts are vehemently opposed to such methods and instead propose using national census records to sample offline (Nie & Ebring, 2000). In some countries, web-based questionnaires are used in conjunction with television to elicit viewers' opinions of programs and political events, and many such questionnaires now say that their results are "not scientific" when they cite them, meaning that unbiased sampling was not done. A term that is gaining popularity is convenience sampling, which is another way of saying that the sample includes those who were available rather than those selected using scientific sampling|
Asking users: questionnaires 405 1  , 406 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Developing a web-based questionnaire I Developing a successful web-based questionnaire involves designing it on paper, developing strategies for reaching the target population, and then turning the paper version into a web-based version (Lazar and Preece, 1999)|last: | Turning the paper questionnaire into a web-based version requires four steps|
Asking users: questionnaires 405 1  , 1. Produce an error-free interactive electronic version from the original paperbased one. This version should provide clear instrllctions and be free of input errors. For example, if just one box should be checked, the other attempts should be rejected automatically. It may also be useful to embed feedback and pop-up help within the questionnaire| | 1. Produce an error-free interactive electronic version from the original paperbased one. This version should provide clear instrllctions and be free of input errors. For example, if just one box should be checked, the other attempts should be rejected automatically. It may also be useful to embed feedback and pop-up help within the questionnaire|
Asking users: questionnaires 405 1  , 2. Make the questionnaire accessible from all common browsers and readable from different-size monitors and different network locations. Specialized software or hardware should be avoided. The need to download software also deters novice users and should be avoided| | 2. Make the questionnaire accessible from all common browsers and readable from different-size monitors and different network locations. Specialized software or hardware should be avoided. The need to download software also deters novice users and should be avoided|
Asking users: questionnaires 405 1  , 3. Make sure information identifying each respondent will be captured and stored confidentially because the same person may submit several completed surveys. This can be done by recording the Internet domain name or the IP address of the respondent, which can then be transferred directly to a | | 3. Make sure information identifying each respondent will be captured and stored confidentially because the same person may submit several completed surveys. This can be done by recording the Internet domain name or the IP address of the respondent, which can then be transferred directly to a |
Asking experts: inspections 407 dat ,  | 13.4 Asking experts: inspections 407 database. However, this action could infringe people's privacy and the legal situation should be checked. Another way is to access the transfer and referrer logs from the web server, which provide information about the domains from which the web-based questionnaire was accessed. Unfortunately, people can still send from different accounts with different IP addresses, so additional identifying information may also be needed|
Asking experts: inspections 407 dat , 4. User-test the survey with pilot stddies before distributing|last: | 4. User-test the survey with pilot stddies before distributing|
Asking experts: inspections 407 dat , 4. User-test the survey with pilot stddies before distributing| | Commercial questionnaires are becoming available via the Internet. Two examples are SUM1 and MUMMS, which are briefly discussed in Box 13.3|
Asking experts: inspections 407 dat , 1 3.3.5 Analyzing questionnaire data Having collected a set of questionnaire responses, you need to know what to do with the data. The first step is to identify any trends or patterns. Using a spreadsheet like Excel to hold the data can help in this initial analysis. Often only simple statistics are needed such as the number or percentage of responses in a particular category. If the number of participants is small, under ten for example, giving actual numbers is more honest, but for larger numbers of responses percentages are useful for standardizing the data, particularly if you want to compare two or more sets of responses. Bar charts can also be used to display data graphically. More advanced statistical techniques such as cluster analysis can also be used to show whether there is a relationship between question responses| | 1 3.3.5 Analyzing questionnaire data Having collected a set of questionnaire responses, you need to know what to do with the data. The first step is to identify any trends or patterns. Using a spreadsheet like Excel to hold the data can help in this initial analysis. Often only simple statistics are needed such as the number or percentage of responses in a particular category. If the number of participants is small, under ten for example, giving actual numbers is more honest, but for larger numbers of responses percentages are useful for standardizing the data, particularly if you want to compare two or more sets of responses. Bar charts can also be used to display data graphically. More advanced statistical techniques such as cluster analysis can also be used to show whether there is a relationship between question responses|
Asking experts: inspections Sometim ,  | 13.4 Asking experts: inspections Sometimes users are not easily accessible or involving them is too expensive or takes too long. In such circumstances, experts or combinations of experts and users can |
Asking experts: inspections Sometim , 408 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts provide feedback. Various inspection techniques began to be developed as alternatives to usability testing in the early 1990s. These included various kinds of expert evaluations or reviews, such as heuristic evaluations and walkthroughs, in which experts inspect the human-computer interface and predict problems users would have when interacting with it. Typically these techniques are relatively inexpensive and easy to learn as well as being effective, which makes them appealing. They are similar to some software engineering practices where code and other types of inspections have been conducted for years. In addition, they can be used at any stage of a design project, including early design before well-developed prototypes are available| | 408 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts provide feedback. Various inspection techniques began to be developed as alternatives to usability testing in the early 1990s. These included various kinds of expert evaluations or reviews, such as heuristic evaluations and walkthroughs, in which experts inspect the human-computer interface and predict problems users would have when interacting with it. Typically these techniques are relatively inexpensive and easy to learn as well as being effective, which makes them appealing. They are similar to some software engineering practices where code and other types of inspections have been conducted for years. In addition, they can be used at any stage of a design project, including early design before well-developed prototypes are available|
Heuristic evaluation Heuristic ev ,  | 13.4.1 Heuristic evaluation Heuristic evaluation is an informal usability inspection technique developed by Jakob Nielsen and his colleagues (Nielsen, 1994a) in which experts, guided by a set of usability principles known as heuristics, evaluate whether user-interface elements, such as dialog boxes, menus, navigation structure, online help, etc., conform to the principles. These heuristics closely resemble the high-level design principles and guidelines discussed in Chapters 1 and 8, e.g., making designs consistent, reducing memory load, and using terms that users understand. When used in evaluation, they are called heuristics. The original set of heuristics was derived empirically from an analysis of 249 usability problems (Nielsen, 1994b). We list the latest here (also in Chapter I), this time expanding them to include some of the questions addressed when doing evaluation: Visibility of system status Are users kept informed about what is going on? Is appropriate feedback provided within reasonable time about a user's action? Match between system and the real world Is the language used at the interface simple? Are the words, phrases and concepts used familiar to the user? User control and freedom Are there ways of allowing users to easily escape from places they unexpectedly find themselves in? Consistency and standards Are the ways of performing similar actions consistent? Help users recognize, diagnose, and recover from errors Are error messages helpful? Do they use plain language to describe the nature of the problem and suggest a way of solving it? Error prevention Is it easy to make errors? If so where and why? Recognition rather than recall Are objects, actions and options always visible? |
Asking experts: inspections 409 Fle ,  | 13.4 Asking experts: inspections 409 Flexibility and eficiency of use Have accelerators (i.e., shortcuts) been provided that allow more experienced users to carry out tasks more quickly? Aesthetic and minimalist design Is any unnecessary and irrelevant information provided? Help and documentation Is help information provided that can be easily searched and easily followed? However, some of these core heuristics are too general for evaluating new products coming onto the market and there is a strong need for heuristics that are more closely tailored to specific products. For example, Nielsen (1999) suggests that the following heuristics are more useful for evaluating commercial websites, and makes them memorable by introducing the acronym H 0 ME R U N: High-quality content Often updated Minimal download time Ease of use Relevant to users' needs Unique to the online medium Netcentric corporate culture Different sets of heuristics for evaluating toys, WAP devices, online cornmunities, wearable computers, and other devices are needed, so evaluators must develop their own by tailoring Nielsen's heuristics and by referring to design guidelines, market research, and requirements documents. Exactly which heuristics are the best and how many are needed are debatable and depend on the product|
Asking experts: inspections 409 Fle ,  | Using a set of heuristics, expert evaluators work with the product role-playing typical users and noting the problems they encounter. Although other numbers of experts can be used, empirical evidence suggests that five evaluators usually identify around 75% of the total usability problems, as shown in Figure 13.5 (Nielsen, Figure 13.5 Curve showing the proportion of usability problems in an interface found by heuristic evaluation using various numbers of evaluators. The curve 0% I I I I I , I I I , I I I representstheaverageof 0 5 10 15 six case studies of heuristic Number of Evaluators evaluation. |
Asking experts: inspections 409 Fle , 41 0 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 1994a). However, skillful experts can capture many of the usability problems by themselves, and many consultants now use this technique as the basis for critiquing interactive devices-a process that has become know as an expert crit in some countries. Because users and special facilities are not needed for heuristic evaluation and it is comparatively inexpensive and quick, it is also known as discount evaluation| | 41 0 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts 1994a). However, skillful experts can capture many of the usability problems by themselves, and many consultants now use this technique as the basis for critiquing interactive devices-a process that has become know as an expert crit in some countries. Because users and special facilities are not needed for heuristic evaluation and it is comparatively inexpensive and quick, it is also known as discount evaluation|
Doing heuristic evaluation Heuris ,  | 13.4.2 Doing heuristic evaluation Heuristic evaluation is one of the most straightforward evaluation methods. The evaluation has three stages: 1. The briefing session in which the experts are told what to do. A prepared script is useful as a guide and to ensure each person receives the same briefing|
Doing heuristic evaluation Heuris , 2. The evaluation period in which each expert typically spends 1-2 hours independently inspecting the product, using the heuristics for guidance. The experts need to take at least two passes through the interface. The first pass gives a feel for the flow of the interaction and the product's scope| | 2. The evaluation period in which each expert typically spends 1-2 hours independently inspecting the product, using the heuristics for guidance. The experts need to take at least two passes through the interface. The first pass gives a feel for the flow of the interaction and the product's scope|
Doing heuristic evaluation Heuris , 2. The evaluation period in which each expert typically spends 1-2 hours independently inspecting the product, using the heuristics for guidance. The experts need to take at least two passes through the interface. The first pass gives a feel for the flow of the interaction and the product's scope|last: | The second pass allows the evaluator to focus on specific interface ele- |
Asking experts: inspections 41 1 me ,  | 13.4 Asking experts: inspections 41 1 ments in the context of the whole product, and to identify potential usability problems|
Asking experts: inspections 41 1 me ,  | If the evaluation is for a functioning product, the evaluators need to have some specific user tasks in mind so that exploration is focused. Suggesting tasks may be helpful but many experts do this automatically. However, this approach is less easy if the evaluation is done early in design when there are only screen mockups or a specification; the approach needs to be adapted to the evaluation circumstances. While working through the interface, specification or mockups, a second person may record the problems identified, or the evaluator may think aloud. Alternatively, she may take notes herself. Experts should be encouraged to be as specific as possible and to record each problem clearly|
Asking experts: inspections 41 1 me , 3. The debriefing session in which the experts come together to discuss their findings and to prioritize the problems they found and suggest solutions| | 3. The debriefing session in which the experts come together to discuss their findings and to prioritize the problems they found and suggest solutions|
Asking experts: inspections 41 1 me , 3. The debriefing session in which the experts come together to discuss their findings and to prioritize the problems they found and suggest solutions| | The heuristics focus the experts' attention on particular issues, so selecting appropriate heuristics is therefore critically important. Even so, there is sometimes less agreement among experts than is desirable, as discussed in the dilemma below|
Asking experts: inspections 41 1 me , 3. The debriefing session in which the experts come together to discuss their findings and to prioritize the problems they found and suggest solutions| | There are fewer practical and ethical issues in heuristic evaluation than for other techniques because users are not involved. A week is often cited as the time needed to train experts to be evaluators (Nielsen and Mack, 1994), but this of course depends on the person's expertise. The best experts will have expertise in both interaction design and the product domain. Typical users can be taught to do |
Asking experts: inspections 41 1 me , 41 2 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts heuristic evaluation, although there have been claims that it is not very successful (Nielsen, 1994a). However, some closely related methods take a team approach that involves users (Bias, 1994)| | 41 2 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts heuristic evaluation, although there have been claims that it is not very successful (Nielsen, 1994a). However, some closely related methods take a team approach that involves users (Bias, 1994)|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  ,  | 13.4.3 Heuristic evaluation of websites In this section we examine heuristics for evaluating websites. We begin by discussing MEDLINEplus, a medical information website created by the National Library of Medicine (NLM) to provide health information for patients, doctors, and researchers (Cogdill, 1999). The home page and two other screens are shown in Figures 13.6-13.8|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  ,  | In 1999 usability consultant Keith Cogdill was commissioned by NLM to evaluate MEDLINEplus. Using a combination of his own knowledge of the users' tasks, problems that had already been reported by users, and advice from documented sources (Shneiderman, 1998a; Nielsen, 1993; Dumas and Redish, 1999), Cogdill identified the seven heuristics listed below. Some of the heuristics resemble Nielsen's original set, but have been tailored for evaluating MEDLINEplus|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , last: | Internal consistency|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  ,  | Internal consistency|: The user should not have to speculate about whether different phrases or actions carry the same meaning|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , last: | Internal consistency|: Figure 13.6 Home page of MEDLINEplus. |
Heuristic evaluation of websites  ,  | Internal consistency|: I 1 3.4 Asking experts: inspections 4 1 3 Figure 13.7 Clicking Health Topics on the home page produced this page|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , last: | Internal consistency|: Simple dialog|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  ,  | Simple dialog|: The dialog with the user should not include information that is irrelevant, unnecessary, or rarely needed. The dialog should be presented in terms familiar to the user and not be system-oriented|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , last: | Simple dialog|: Shortcuts|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , last: | Shortcuts|: The interface should accommodate both novice and experienced users|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , last: | Shortcuts|: Minimizing the user's memory load|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  ,  | Shortcuts|: The interface should not require the user to remember information from one part of the dialog to another|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , last: | Shortcuts|: Preventing errors|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , last: | Preventing errors|: The interface should prevent errors from occurring|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , last: | Preventing errors|: Feedback|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , last: | Feedback|: The system should keep the user informed about what is taking place|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , last: | Feedback|: Internal locus of control|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  ,  | Internal locus of control|: Users who choose system functions by mistake should have an "emergency exit" that lets them leave the unwanted state without having to engage in an extended dialog with the system, These heuristics were given to three expert evaluators who independently evaluated MEDLINEplus. Their comments were then compiled and a meeting was |
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , 4 14 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Figure 13.8 Categories of links within Health Topics for knee injuries| | 4 14 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Figure 13.8 Categories of links within Health Topics for knee injuries|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , 4 14 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Figure 13.8 Categories of links within Health Topics for knee injuries| | called to discuss their findings and suggest strategies for addressing problems. The following points were among their findings: Layout|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , 4 14 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Figure 13.8 Categories of links within Health Topics for knee injuries|last: | All pages within MEDLINEplus have a relatively uncomplicated vertical design|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , 4 14 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Figure 13.8 Categories of links within Health Topics for knee injuries| | The home page is particularly compact, and all pages are well suited for printing. The use of graphics is conservative, minimizing the time needed to download pages|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , 4 14 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Figure 13.8 Categories of links within Health Topics for knee injuries|last: | Internal consistency|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , 4 14 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Figure 13.8 Categories of links within Health Topics for knee injuries| | Internal consistency|: The formatting of pages and presentation of the logo are consistent across the website. Justification of text, fonts, font sizes, font colors, use of terms, and links labels are also consistent|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , 4 14 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Figure 13.8 Categories of links within Health Topics for knee injuries|last: | Internal consistency|: The experts also suggested improvements, including: Arrangement of health topics|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , 4 14 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Figure 13.8 Categories of links within Health Topics for knee injuries| | Internal consistency|: Topics should be arranged alphabetically as well as in categories. For exampIe, health topics related to cardiovascular conditions could appear together|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , 4 14 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Figure 13.8 Categories of links within Health Topics for knee injuries|last: | Internal consistency|: Depth of navigation menu|
Heuristic evaluation of websites  , 4 14 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Figure 13.8 Categories of links within Health Topics for knee injuries| | Depth of navigation menu|: Having a higher "fan-out" in the navigation menu in the left margin would enhance usability. By this they mean that more topics should be listed on the |
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su ,  | 13.4 Asking experts: inspections 41 5 surface, giving many short menus rather than a few deep ones (see the experiment on breadth versus depth in Chapter 14 which provides evidence to justify this.) Turning design guidelines into heuristics for the web The following list of guidelines for evaluating websites was compiled from several sources and grouped into three categories: navigation, access, and information design (Preece, 2000). These guidelines provide a basis for developing heuristics by converting them into questions. I Navigation One of the biggest problems for users of large websites is navigating around the site. The phrase "lost in cyberspace" is understood by every web user|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su ,  | The following six guidelines (from Nielsen (1998) and others) are intended to encourage good navigation design: Avoid orphan pages i.e. pages that are not connected to the home page, because they lead users into dead ends|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su ,  | Are there any orphan pages? Where do they go to? Avoid long pages with excessive white space that force scrolling|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su ,  | Are there any long pages? Do they have lots of white space or are they full of texts or lists? Provide navigation support, such as a strong site map that is always present (Shneiderman, 1998b)|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su ,  | Is there any guidance, e.g. maps, navigation bar, menus, to help users find their way around the site? Avoid narrow, deep, hierarchical menus that force users to burrow deep into the menu structure|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su ,  | Empirical evidence indicates that broad shallow menus have better usability than a few deep menus (Larson and Czerwinski, 1998; Shneiderman, 1998b)|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su , last: | Avoid non-standard link colors|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su ,  | What color is used for links? Is it blue or another color? If it is another color, then is it obvious to the user that it is a hyperlink? Provide consistent look and feel for navigation and information design|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su ,  | Are menus used, named, and positioned consistently? Are links used consistently? Access Accessing many websites can be a problem for people with slow Internet connections and limited processing power. In addition, browsers are often not sensitive to errors in URLs. Nielsen (1998) suggests the following guidelines: Avoid complex URLs|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su , last: | Are the URLs complex? Is it easy to make typing mistakes when entering them? |
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su , 41 6 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts I Avoid long download times that annoy users|last: | 41 6 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts I Avoid long download times that annoy users|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su , 41 6 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts I Avoid long download times that annoy users| | Are there pages with lots of graphics? How long does it take to download each page? Information design Information design (i.e., content comprehension and aesthetics) contributes to users' understanding and impressions of the site as you can see in Activity 13.6|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su , 41 6 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts I Avoid long download times that annoy users| | Consider the following design guidelines for information design and for each one suggest a I ' question that could be used in heuristic evaluation: ~ Outdated or incomplete information is to be avoided (Nielsen, 1998). It creates a poor impression with users|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su , 41 6 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts I Avoid long download times that annoy users| | Good graphical design is important. Reading long sentences, paragraphs, and documents is difficult on screen, so break material into discrete, meaningful chunks to give the website structure (Lynch and Horton, 1999)|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su , 41 6 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts I Avoid long download times that annoy users| | Avoid excessive use of color. Color is useful for indicating different kinds of information, i.e., cueing (Preece et al., 1994)|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su , 41 6 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts I Avoid long download times that annoy users| | Avoid gratuitous use of graphics and animation. In addition to increasing download time, graphics and animation soon become boring and annoying (Lynch and Horton, 1999)|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su , 41 6 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts I Avoid long download times that annoy users| | Be consistent. Consistency both within pages (e.g., use of fonts, numbering, terminology, etc.) and within the site (e.g., navigation, menu names, etc.) is important for usability and for aesthetically pleasing designs|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su , 41 6 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts I Avoid long download times that annoy users| | Comment We suggest the following questions; you may have identified others: Outdated or incomplete information|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su , 41 6 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts I Avoid long download times that annoy users| | Do the pages have dates on them? How many pages are old and provide outdated information?  Good graphical design is important|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su , 41 6 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts I Avoid long download times that annoy users| | Is the page layout structured meaningfully? Is there too much text on each page? Avoid excessive use of color|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su , 41 6 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts I Avoid long download times that annoy users| | How is color used? Is it used as a form of coding? Is it used to make the site bright and cheerful? Is it excessive and garish? Avoid gratuitous use of graphics and animation|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su , 41 6 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts I Avoid long download times that annoy users| | Are there any flashing banners? Are there complex introduction sequences? Can they be short-circuited? Do the graphics add to the site? Be Consistent|
Asking experts: inspections 41 5 su , 41 6 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts I Avoid long download times that annoy users| | Are the same buttons, fonts, numbers, menu styles, etc. used across the site? Are they used in the same way? Look at the heuristics above and consider how you would use them to evaluate a website for purchasing clothes (e.g., REI.com, which has a home page similar to that in Figure 13.9). I I -- |
Asking experts: inspections 41 7 Co ,  | 13.4 Asking experts: inspections 41 7 Comment Figure 13.9 The home page is similar to that of REI.com|
Asking experts: inspections 41 7 Co , last: | While you are doing this activity think about whether the grouping into three categories is useful|
Asking experts: inspections 41 7 Co ,  | (a) Does it help you focus on what is being evaluated? (b) Might fewer heuristics be better? Which might be combined and what are the trade-offs? (a) Informal evaluation in which the heuristics were categorized suggests that the three categories help evaluators to focus. However, 13 heuristics is still a lot|
Asking experts: inspections 41 7 Co ,  | (b) Some heuristics can be combined and given a more general description. For example, providing navigation support and avoiding narrow, deep, hierarchical menus could be replaced with "help users develop a good mental model," but this is a more abstract statement and some evaluators might not know what is packed into it. Producing questions suitable for heuristic evaluation often results in more of them, so there is a trade-off. An argument for keeping the detail is that it reminds evaluators of the issues to consider. At present, since the web is relatively new, we can argue that such reminders are needed. Perhaps in five years they will not be|
Asking experts: inspections 41 7 Co ,  | Heuristics for online communities As we have already mentioned, different combinations and types of heuristics are needed to evaluate different types of applications and interactive products. Another |
Asking experts: inspections 41 7 Co ,  | I 41 8 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts kind of web application to which heuristics must be tailored is online communities|
Asking experts: inspections 41 7 Co ,  | Here, a key concern is how to evaluate not merely usability but also how well social interaction (i.e., sociability) is supported. This topic has received less attention than the web but the following nine sets of example questions can be used as a starting point for developing heuristics to evaluate online communities (Preece, 2000): Sociability: Why should I join this community? (What are the benefits for me? Does the description of the group, its name, its location in the website, the graphics, etc., tell me about the purpose of the group?) Usability: How do I join (or leave) the community? (What do I do? Do I have to register or can I just post, and is this a good thing?) Sociability: What are the rules? (Is there anything I shouldn't do? Are the expectations for communal behavior made clear? Is there someone who checks that people are behaving reasonably?) Usability: How do I get, read and send messages? (Is there support for newcomers? IS it clear what I should do? Are templates provided? Can I send private messages?) Usability: Can I do what I want to do easily? (Can I navigate the site? Do I feel comfortable interacting with the software? Can I find the information and people I want?) Sociability: Is the community safe? (Are my comments treated with respect? Is my personal information secure? Do people make aggressive or unacceptable remarks to each other?) Sociability: Can I express myself as I wish? (Is there a way of expressing emotions, such as using emoticons? Can I show people what I look like or reveal aspects of my character? Can I see others? Can I determine who else is present-perhaps people are looking on but not sending messages?) Sociability: Do people reciprocate? (If I contribute will others contribute comments, support and answer my questions?) Sociability: Why should I come back? (What makes the experience worthwhile? What's in it for me? Do I feel part of a thriving community? Are there interesting people with whom to communicate? Are there interesting events?) Go to the communities in RELcom or to another site that has bulletin boards to which customers can send comments. Social interaction was discussed in Chapter 4, and this exercise involves picking up some of the concepts discussed there and developing heuristics to evaluate online communities. Before starting you will find it useful to familiarize yourself by carrying out the following: read some of the messages send a message reply to a message search for information notice how many messages have been sent and how recently |
Asking experts: inspections 41 9 Co ,  | 13.4 Asking experts: inspections 41 9 Comment notice whether you can see the physical relationship between messages easily notice whether you can post to people privately using email notice whether you can gain a sense of what the other people are like and the emotional content of their messages notice whether there is a sense of community and of individuals being present, etc|
Asking experts: inspections 41 9 Co ,  | Then use the nine questions above as heuristics to evaluate the site: I (a) How well do the questions work as heuristics for evaluating the online community for both usability and sociability issues? (b) Could these questions form the basis for heuristics for other online communities such I as Hutchworld discussed in Chapter lo? I (a) You probably found that these questions helped focus your attention on the main issues of concern. You may also have noticed that some communities are more like i ghost towns than communities; they get very few visitors. Unlike the website evaluation it is therefore important to pay attention to social interaction. A community without people is not a community no matter how good the software is that supports it|
Asking experts: inspections 41 9 Co ,  | (b) HutchWorld is designed to support social interaction and offers many additional features such as support for social presence by allowing participants to represent themselves as avatars, show pictures of themselves, tell stories, etc. The nine questions above are useful but may need adapting|
Heuristics for other devices The  ,  | 13.4.4 Heuristics for other devices The examples in the previous activities start to show how heuristics can be tailored for specific applications. However, some products are even more different than those from the desktop world of the early 1990s that gave rise to Nielsen's original heuristics|
Heuristics for other devices The  ,  | For example, computerized toys are being developed that motivate, entice and challenge, in innovative ways. Handheld devices sell partly on size, color and other aesthetic qualities-features that can have a big impact on the user experience but are not covered by traditional heuristics. Little research has been done on developing heuristics for these products, but Activity 13.9 will start you thinking about them|
Heuristics for other devices The  ,  | Allison Druin works with children to develop web applications and computerized toys (Druin, 1999). From doing this work Allison and her team know that children like to: be in control and not to be controlled create things express themselves be social collaborate with other children (a) What kind of tasks should be considered in evaluating a fluffy robot toy dog that can be programmed to move and to tell personalized stories about itself and children? The target age group for the toy is 7-9 years|
Heuristics for other devices The  , last: | (b) Suggest heuristics to evaluate the toy. |
Heuristics for other devices The  , 420 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Comment (a) Tasks that you could consider: making the toy tell a story about the owner and two friends, making the toy move across the room, turn, and speak. You probably thought of others| | 420 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Comment (a) Tasks that you could consider: making the toy tell a story about the owner and two friends, making the toy move across the room, turn, and speak. You probably thought of others|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 420 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Comment (a) Tasks that you could consider: making the toy tell a story about the owner and two friends, making the toy move across the room, turn, and speak. You probably thought of others| | (b) The heuristics could be written to cover: being in control, being flexible, supporting expression, being motivating, supporting collaboration and being engaging. These are based on the issues raised by Druin, but the last one is aesthetic and tactile. Several of the heuristics needed would be more concerned with user experience (e.g., motivating, engaging, etc.) than with usability|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 420 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Comment (a) Tasks that you could consider: making the toy tell a story about the owner and two friends, making the toy move across the room, turn, and speak. You probably thought of others| | I 13.5 Asking experts: walkthroughs Walkthroughs are an alternative approach to heuristic evaluation for predicting users' problems without doing user testing. As the name suggests, they involve walking through a task with the system and noting problematic usability features|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 420 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Comment (a) Tasks that you could consider: making the toy tell a story about the owner and two friends, making the toy move across the room, turn, and speak. You probably thought of others| | Most walkthrough techniques do not involve users. Others, such as pluralistic walkthroughs, involve a team that includes users, developers, and usability specialists|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 420 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Comment (a) Tasks that you could consider: making the toy tell a story about the owner and two friends, making the toy move across the room, turn, and speak. You probably thought of others| | In this section we consider cognitive and pluralistic walkthroughs. Both were originally developed for desktop systems but can be applied to web-based systems, handheld devices, and products such as VCRs|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 1 3.5.1 Cognitive walkthroughs "Cognitive walkthroughs involve simulating a user's problem-solving process at each step in the human-computer dialog, checking to see if the user's goals and memory for actions can be assumed to lead to the next correct action." (Nielsen and Mack, 1994, p. 6). The defining feature is that they focus on evaluating designs for ease of learning-a focus that is motivated by observations that users learn by exploration (Wharton et al., 1994). The steps involved in cognitive walkthroughs are: 1. The characteristics of typical users are identified and documented and sample tasks are developed that focus on the aspects of the design to be evaluated| | 1 3.5.1 Cognitive walkthroughs "Cognitive walkthroughs involve simulating a user's problem-solving process at each step in the human-computer dialog, checking to see if the user's goals and memory for actions can be assumed to lead to the next correct action." (Nielsen and Mack, 1994, p. 6). The defining feature is that they focus on evaluating designs for ease of learning-a focus that is motivated by observations that users learn by exploration (Wharton et al., 1994). The steps involved in cognitive walkthroughs are: 1. The characteristics of typical users are identified and documented and sample tasks are developed that focus on the aspects of the design to be evaluated|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 1 3.5.1 Cognitive walkthroughs "Cognitive walkthroughs involve simulating a user's problem-solving process at each step in the human-computer dialog, checking to see if the user's goals and memory for actions can be assumed to lead to the next correct action." (Nielsen and Mack, 1994, p. 6). The defining feature is that they focus on evaluating designs for ease of learning-a focus that is motivated by observations that users learn by exploration (Wharton et al., 1994). The steps involved in cognitive walkthroughs are: 1. The characteristics of typical users are identified and documented and sample tasks are developed that focus on the aspects of the design to be evaluated| | A description or prototype of the interface to be developed is also produced, along with a clear sequence of the actions needed for the users to complete the task|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 2. A designer and one or more expert evaluators then come together to do the analysis|last: | 2. A designer and one or more expert evaluators then come together to do the analysis|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 3. The evaluators walk through the action sequences for each task, placing it within the context of a typical scenario, and as they do this they try to answer the following questions: Will the correct action be sufficiently evident to the user? (Will the user know what to do to achieve the task?) Will the user notice that the correct action is available? (Can users see the button or menu item that they should use for the next action? Is it apparent when it is needed?) | | 3. The evaluators walk through the action sequences for each task, placing it within the context of a typical scenario, and as they do this they try to answer the following questions: Will the correct action be sufficiently evident to the user? (Will the user know what to do to achieve the task?) Will the user notice that the correct action is available? (Can users see the button or menu item that they should use for the next action? Is it apparent when it is needed?) |
Heuristics for other devices The  , 1 3.5 Asking experts: walkthroughs 42 1 I Will the user associate and interpret the response from the action correctly? (Will users know from the feedback that they have made a correct or incorrect choice of action?) In other words: will users know what to do, see how to do it, and understand from feedback whether the action was correct or not? 4. As the walkthrough is being done, a record of critical information is compiled in which: The assumptions about what would cause problems and why are recorded. This involves explaining why users would face difficulties, Notes about side issues and design changes are made| | 1 3.5 Asking experts: walkthroughs 42 1 I Will the user associate and interpret the response from the action correctly? (Will users know from the feedback that they have made a correct or incorrect choice of action?) In other words: will users know what to do, see how to do it, and understand from feedback whether the action was correct or not? 4. As the walkthrough is being done, a record of critical information is compiled in which: The assumptions about what would cause problems and why are recorded. This involves explaining why users would face difficulties, Notes about side issues and design changes are made|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 1 3.5 Asking experts: walkthroughs 42 1 I Will the user associate and interpret the response from the action correctly? (Will users know from the feedback that they have made a correct or incorrect choice of action?) In other words: will users know what to do, see how to do it, and understand from feedback whether the action was correct or not? 4. As the walkthrough is being done, a record of critical information is compiled in which: The assumptions about what would cause problems and why are recorded. This involves explaining why users would face difficulties, Notes about side issues and design changes are made|last: | A summary of the results is compiled|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 5. The design is then revised to fix the problems presented. I It is important to document the cognitive walkthrough, keeping account of what works and what doesn't. A standardized feedback form can be used in which answers are recorded to the three bulleted questions in step (3) above. The form can also record the details outlined in points 1-4 as well as the date of the evaluation| | 5. The design is then revised to fix the problems presented. I It is important to document the cognitive walkthrough, keeping account of what works and what doesn't. A standardized feedback form can be used in which answers are recorded to the three bulleted questions in step (3) above. The form can also record the details outlined in points 1-4 as well as the date of the evaluation|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 5. The design is then revised to fix the problems presented. I It is important to document the cognitive walkthrough, keeping account of what works and what doesn't. A standardized feedback form can be used in which answers are recorded to the three bulleted questions in step (3) above. The form can also record the details outlined in points 1-4 as well as the date of the evaluation| | Negative answers to any of the questions are carefully documented on a separate form, along with details of the system, its version number, the date of the evaluation, and the evaluators' names. It is also useful to document the severity of the problems, for example, how likely a problem is to occur and how serious it will be for users|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 5. The design is then revised to fix the problems presented. I It is important to document the cognitive walkthrough, keeping account of what works and what doesn't. A standardized feedback form can be used in which answers are recorded to the three bulleted questions in step (3) above. The form can also record the details outlined in points 1-4 as well as the date of the evaluation| | The strengths of this technique are that it focuses on users' problems in detail, yet users do not need to be present, nor is a working prototype necessary. However, it is very time-consuming and laborious to do. Furthermore the technique has a narrow focus that can be useful for certain types of system but not others|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 5. The design is then revised to fix the problems presented. I It is important to document the cognitive walkthrough, keeping account of what works and what doesn't. A standardized feedback form can be used in which answers are recorded to the three bulleted questions in step (3) above. The form can also record the details outlined in points 1-4 as well as the date of the evaluation| | Example: Find a book at Amazon.com This example shows a cognitive walkthrough of buying this book at Amazon.com|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 5. The design is then revised to fix the problems presented. I It is important to document the cognitive walkthrough, keeping account of what works and what doesn't. A standardized feedback form can be used in which answers are recorded to the three bulleted questions in step (3) above. The form can also record the details outlined in points 1-4 as well as the date of the evaluation| | Task: to buy a copy of this book from Amazon.com Typical users: students who use the web regularly The steps to complete the task are given below. Note that the interface for Amazon.com may have changed since we did our evaluation|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 5. The design is then revised to fix the problems presented. I It is important to document the cognitive walkthrough, keeping account of what works and what doesn't. A standardized feedback form can be used in which answers are recorded to the three bulleted questions in step (3) above. The form can also record the details outlined in points 1-4 as well as the date of the evaluation| | Step 1. Selecting the correct category of goods on the home page Q. Will users know what to do? Answer: Yes-they know that they must find "books." Q. Will users see how to do it? Answer: Yes-they have seen menus before and will know to select the appropriate item and click go|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 5. The design is then revised to fix the problems presented. I It is important to document the cognitive walkthrough, keeping account of what works and what doesn't. A standardized feedback form can be used in which answers are recorded to the three bulleted questions in step (3) above. The form can also record the details outlined in points 1-4 as well as the date of the evaluation| | Q. Will users understand from feedback whether the action was correct or not? Answer: Yes-their action takes them to a form that they need to complete to search for the book. |
Heuristics for other devices The  , 422 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Step 2. Completing the form Q. Will users know what to do? Answer: Yes-the online form is like a paper form so they know they have to complete it| | 422 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Step 2. Completing the form Q. Will users know what to do? Answer: Yes-the online form is like a paper form so they know they have to complete it|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 422 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Step 2. Completing the form Q. Will users know what to do? Answer: Yes-the online form is like a paper form so they know they have to complete it| | Answer: No-they may not realize that the form has defaults to prevent inappropriate answers because this is different from a paper form|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 422 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Step 2. Completing the form Q. Will users know what to do? Answer: Yes-the online form is like a paper form so they know they have to complete it| | Q. Will users see how to do it? Answer: Yes-it is clear where the information goes and there is a button to tell the system to search for the book|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 422 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Step 2. Completing the form Q. Will users know what to do? Answer: Yes-the online form is like a paper form so they know they have to complete it| | Q. Will users understand from feedback whether the action was correct or not? Answer: Yes-they are taken to a picture of the book, a description, and purchase details|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 422 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Step 2. Completing the form Q. Will users know what to do? Answer: Yes-the online form is like a paper form so they know they have to complete it| | Activity 13.7 was about doing a heuristic evaluation of REI.com or a similar e-commerce retail site. Now go back to that site and do a cognitive walkthrough to buy something, say a pair of skis. When you have completed the evaluation, compare your findings from the cognitive walkthrough technique with those from heuristic evaluation|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 422 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Step 2. Completing the form Q. Will users know what to do? Answer: Yes-the online form is like a paper form so they know they have to complete it| | Comment You probably found that the cognitive walkthrough took longer than the heuristic evaluation for evaluating the same part of the site because it examines each step of a task. Consequently, you probably did not see as much of the website. It's likely that you also got much more detailed findings from the cognitive walkthrough. Cognitive walkthrough is a useful technique for examining a small part of a system in detail, whereas heuristic evaluation is useful for examining whole or parts of systems|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 422 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Step 2. Completing the form Q. Will users know what to do? Answer: Yes-the online form is like a paper form so they know they have to complete it| | Variation of the cognitive walkthrough A useful variation on this theme is provided by Rick Spencer of Microsoft, who adapted the cognitive walkthrough technique to make it more effective with a team who were developing an interactive development environment (IDE) (Spencer, 2000). When used in its original state, there were two major problems|
Heuristics for other devices The  , 422 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Step 2. Completing the form Q. Will users know what to do? Answer: Yes-the online form is like a paper form so they know they have to complete it| | First, answering the three questions in step (3) and discussing the answers took too long. Second, designers tended to be defensive, often invoking long explanations of cognitive theory to justify their designs. This second problem was particularly difficult because it undermined the efficacy of the technique and the social relationships of team members. In order to cope with these problems Rick Spencer adapted the technique by reducing the number of questions and curtailing discussion. This meant that the analysis was more coarse-grained but could be completed in much less time (about 2.5 hours). He also identified a leader, the usability specialist, and set strong ground rules for the session, including a ban on defending a design, debating cognitive theory, or doing designs on the fly. |
Heuristics for other devices The  , 422 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts Step 2. Completing the form Q. Will users know what to do? Answer: Yes-the online form is like a paper form so they know they have to complete it| | I Assignment 423 These adaptations made the technique more usable, despite losing some of the detail from the analysis. Perhaps most important of all, he directed the social interactions of the design team so that they achieved their goal|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali ,  | 13.5.2 Pluralistic walkthroughs "Pluralistic walkthroughs are another type of walkthrough in which users, developers and usability experts work together to step through a [task] scenario, discussing usability issues associated with dialog elements involved in the scenario steps" (Nielsen and Mack, 1994, p. 5). Each group of experts is asked to assume the role of typical users. The walkthroughs are then done by following a sequence of steps (Bias, 1994): 1. Scenarios are developed in the form of a series of hard-copy screens representing a single path through the interface. Often just two or a few screens are developed|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 2. The scenarios are presented to the panel of evaluators and the panelists are asked to write down the sequence of actions they would take to move from one screen to another. They do this individually without conferring with one another| | 2. The scenarios are presented to the panel of evaluators and the panelists are asked to write down the sequence of actions they would take to move from one screen to another. They do this individually without conferring with one another|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 3. When everyone has written down their actions, the panelists discuss the actions that they suggested for that round of the review. Usually, the representative users go first so that they are not influenced by the other panel members and are not deterred from speaking. Then the usability experts present their findings, and finally the developers offer their comments| | 3. When everyone has written down their actions, the panelists discuss the actions that they suggested for that round of the review. Usually, the representative users go first so that they are not influenced by the other panel members and are not deterred from speaking. Then the usability experts present their findings, and finally the developers offer their comments|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 4. Then the panel moves on to the next round of screens. This process continues until all the scenarios have been evaluated| | 4. Then the panel moves on to the next round of screens. This process continues until all the scenarios have been evaluated|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 4. Then the panel moves on to the next round of screens. This process continues until all the scenarios have been evaluated| | The benefits of pluralistic walkthroughs include a strong focus on users' tasks. Performance data is produced and many designers like the apparent clarity of working with quantitative data. The approach also lends itself well to participatory design practices by involving a multidisciplinary team in which users play a key role. Limitations include having to get all the experts together at once and then proceed at the rate of the slowest. Furthermore, only a limited number of scenarios, and hence paths through the interface, can usually be explored because of time constraints|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 4. Then the panel moves on to the next round of screens. This process continues until all the scenarios have been evaluated| | Assignment This assignment continues the work you did on the web-based ticketing system at the end of Chapters 7 and 8. The aim of this assignment is to evaluate the prototypes produced in the assignment of Chapter 8. The assignment takes an iterative form in which we ask you to evaluate and redesign your prototypes, following the iterative path in the interaction design process described in Chapter 6|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 4. Then the panel moves on to the next round of screens. This process continues until all the scenarios have been evaluated| | (a) For each prototype, return to the feedback you collected in Chapter 8 but this time perform open-ended interviews with a couple of potential users. |
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account| | 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account| | (c) Decide on an appropriate set of heuristics and perform a heuristic evaluation of the redesigned prototype|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account| | (d) Based on this evaluation, redesign the prototype to overcome the problems you encountered. 1 (e) Design a questionnaire to evaluate the system. The questionnaire may be paperbased or electronic. If it is electronic, make your software prototype and the questionnaire available to others and ask a selection of people to evaluate the system|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account| | Summary Techniques for asking users for their opinions vary from being unstructured and open-ended to tightly structured. The former enable exploration of concepts, while the latter provide structured information and can be replicated with large numbers of users, as in surveys. Predictive evaluation is done by experts who inspect the designs and offer their opinions. The value of these techniques is that they structure the evaluation process, which can in turn help to prevent problems from being overlooked. In practice, interviews and observations often go hand in hand, as part of a design process|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account|last: | Key points There are three styles of interviews: structured, semi-structured and unstructured|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account| | Interview questions can be open or closed. Closed questions require the interviewee to select from a limited range of options. Open questions accept a free-range response|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account| | Many interviews are semi-structured. The evaluator has a predetermined agenda but will probe and follow interesting, relevant directions suggested by the interviewee|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account|last: | A few structured questions may also be included, for example to collect demographic information|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account|last: | Structured and semi-structured interviews are designed to be replicated|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account|last: | Focus groups are a form of group interview|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account|last: | Questionnaires are a comparatively low-cost, quick way of reaching large numbers of people|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account|last: | Various rating scales exist including selection boxes, Likert, and semantic scales|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account|last: | Inspections can be used for evaluating requirements, mockups, functional prototypes, or systems|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account|last: | Five experts typically find around 75% of the usability problems|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account|last: | Compared to user testing, heuristic evaluation is less expensive and more flexible|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account|last: | User testing and heuristic evaluation often reveal different usability problems|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account|last: | Other types of inspections include pluralistic and cognitive walkthroughs|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account|last: | Walkthroughs are very focused and so are suitable for evaluating small parts of systems. |
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account| | Further reading 425 Further reading NIELSEN, J., AND MACK, R. L. (eds.) (1994) Usability Inspection Methods. New York: John Wiley & Sons. This book contains an edited collection of chapters on a variety of usability inspection methods. There is a detailed description of heuristic evaluation and walkthroughs and comparisons of these techniques with other evaluation techniques, particularly user testing. Jakob Nielsen's website useit.com provides additional information and advice on website design|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account| | OPPENHEIM, A. N. (1992) Questionnaire Design, Interviewing and Attitude Measurement. London: Pinter Publishers|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account| | This text is useful for reference. It provides a detailed account of all aspects of questionnaire design, illustrated with many examples|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account| | PREECE, 3. (2000) Online Communities: Designing Usability, Supporting Sociability. Chichester, UK: John Wiley & Sons|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account|last: | This book is about the design of web-based online communities|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account| | It suggests guidelines for evaluating for sociability and usability that can be used as a basis for heuristics|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account| | ROBSON, C. (1993) Real World Research. Blackwell. Oxford, UK. Chapter 9 provides basic practical guidance on how to interview and design questionnaires. It also contains many examples|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 424 Chapter 1 3 Asking users and experts (b) Based on the feedback from this first evaluation, redesign the softwareIHTML prototype to take comments on all three prototypes into account| | SHNEIDERMAN, B. (1998) Designing the User Interface: Strategies for Effective Human-Computer Interaction (3rd Edition) Reading, MA.: Addison-Wesley. Chapter 4 contains a discussion of the QUIS questionnaire. |
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 426 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts about getting a very quick glance at what is on a page and if they don't understand it then leaving it. Typically application users work a little harder at learning an application. The basic heuristics that I developed a long time ago are universal, so they apply to the web as well. But as well as these global heuristics that are always true, for example "consistency," there can be specialized heuristics that apply to particular systems| | 426 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts about getting a very quick glance at what is on a page and if they don't understand it then leaving it. Typically application users work a little harder at learning an application. The basic heuristics that I developed a long time ago are universal, so they apply to the web as well. But as well as these global heuristics that are always true, for example "consistency," there can be specialized heuristics that apply to particular systems|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 426 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts about getting a very quick glance at what is on a page and if they don't understand it then leaving it. Typically application users work a little harder at learning an application. The basic heuristics that I developed a long time ago are universal, so they apply to the web as well. But as well as these global heuristics that are always true, for example "consistency," there can be specialized heuristics that apply to particular systems| | But most evaluators use the general heuristics because the web is still evolving and we are still in the process of determining what the web-specific heuristics should be|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 426 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts about getting a very quick glance at what is on a page and if they don't understand it then leaving it. Typically application users work a little harder at learning an application. The basic heuristics that I developed a long time ago are universal, so they apply to the web as well. But as well as these global heuristics that are always true, for example "consistency," there can be specialized heuristics that apply to particular systems|last: | why he developed the technique, and how it can be applied to the web|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 426 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts about getting a very quick glance at what is on a page and if they don't understand it then leaving it. Typically application users work a little harder at learning an application. The basic heuristics that I developed a long time ago are universal, so they apply to the web as well. But as well as these global heuristics that are always true, for example "consistency," there can be specialized heuristics that apply to particular systems| | JP: Jakob, why did you create heuristic evaluation? JN: It is part of a larger mission I was on in the mid- '80s, which was to simplify usability engineering, to get more people using what I call "discount usability engineering." The idea was to come up with several simplified methods that would be very easy and fast to use. Heuristic evaluation can be used for any design project or any stage in the design process, without budgetary constraints. To succeed it had to be fast, cheap, and useful|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 426 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts about getting a very quick glance at what is on a page and if they don't understand it then leaving it. Typically application users work a little harder at learning an application. The basic heuristics that I developed a long time ago are universal, so they apply to the web as well. But as well as these global heuristics that are always true, for example "consistency," there can be specialized heuristics that apply to particular systems| | JP: How can it be adapted for the web? JN: I think it applies just as much to the web, actually if anything more, because a typical website will have tens of thousands of pages. A big one may have hundreds of thousands of pages, much too much to be assessed using traditional usability evaluation methods such as user testing. User testing is good for testing the home page or the main navigation system. But if you look at the individual pages, there is no way that you can really test them. Even with the discount approach, which would involve five users, it would still be hard to test all the pages. So all you are left with is the notion of doing a heuristic evaluation, where you just have a few people look at the majority of pages and judge them according to the heuristics. Now the heuristics are somewhat different, because people behave differently on the web. They are more ruthless JP: So how do you advise designers to go about evaluating a really large website? JN: Well, you cannot actually test every page. Also, there is another problem: developing a large website is incredibly collaborative and involves a lot of different people. There may be a central team in charge of things like the home page, the overall appearance, and the overall navigation system. But when it comes to making a product page, it is the product-marketing manager of, say, Kentucky who is in charge of that|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 426 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts about getting a very quick glance at what is on a page and if they don't understand it then leaving it. Typically application users work a little harder at learning an application. The basic heuristics that I developed a long time ago are universal, so they apply to the web as well. But as well as these global heuristics that are always true, for example "consistency," there can be specialized heuristics that apply to particular systems| | The division in Kentucky knows about the product line and the people back at headquarters have no clue about the details. That's why they have to do their own evaluations in that department. The big thing right now is that this is not being done, developers are not evaluating enough. That's one of the reasons I want to push the heuristic evaluation method even further to get it out to all the website contributors. The uptake of usability methods has dramatically improved from five years ago, when many companies didn't have a clue, but the need today is still great because of the phenomenal development of the web|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 426 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts about getting a very quick glance at what is on a page and if they don't understand it then leaving it. Typically application users work a little harder at learning an application. The basic heuristics that I developed a long time ago are universal, so they apply to the web as well. But as well as these global heuristics that are always true, for example "consistency," there can be specialized heuristics that apply to particular systems| | JP: When should you start doing heuristic evaluation? JN: You should start quite early, maybe not quite as early as testing a very rough mockup, but as soon as there is a slightly more substantial prototype. For example, if you are building a website that might eventually have ten thousand pages, it would be appropriate to do a heuristic evaluation of, say, the first ten to twenty pages. By doing this you would catch quite a lot of usability problems. |
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 426 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts about getting a very quick glance at what is on a page and if they don't understand it then leaving it. Typically application users work a little harder at learning an application. The basic heuristics that I developed a long time ago are universal, so they apply to the web as well. But as well as these global heuristics that are always true, for example "consistency," there can be specialized heuristics that apply to particular systems| | Interview 427 JP: How do you combine user testing and heuristic evaluation? JN: I suggest a sandwich model where you layer them on top of each other. Do some early user testing of two or three drawings. Develop the ideas somewhat, then do a heuristic evaluation. Then evolve the design further, do some user tests, evolve it and do heuristic evaluation, and so on. When the design is nearing completion, heuristic evaluation is very useful particularly for a very large design|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 426 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts about getting a very quick glance at what is on a page and if they don't understand it then leaving it. Typically application users work a little harder at learning an application. The basic heuristics that I developed a long time ago are universal, so they apply to the web as well. But as well as these global heuristics that are always true, for example "consistency," there can be specialized heuristics that apply to particular systems| | JP: So, do you have a story to tell us about your consulting experiences, something that opened your eyes or amused you? JN: Well, my most interesting project started when I received an email from a co-founder of a large company who wanted my opinion on a new idea. We met and he explained his idea and because I know a lot about usability, including research studies, I could warn him that it wouldn't work-it was doomed. This was very satisfying and seems like the true role for a usability consultant. I think usability consultants should have this level of insight. It is not enough to just clean up after somebody makes the mistake of starting the wrong project or produces a poor design|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 426 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts about getting a very quick glance at what is on a page and if they don't understand it then leaving it. Typically application users work a little harder at learning an application. The basic heuristics that I developed a long time ago are universal, so they apply to the web as well. But as well as these global heuristics that are always true, for example "consistency," there can be specialized heuristics that apply to particular systems| | We really should help define which projects should be done in the first place. Our role is to help identify options for really improving people's lives, for developing products that are considerably more efficient, easier or faster to learn, or whatever the criteria are|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 426 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts about getting a very quick glance at what is on a page and if they don't understand it then leaving it. Typically application users work a little harder at learning an application. The basic heuristics that I developed a long time ago are universal, so they apply to the web as well. But as well as these global heuristics that are always true, for example "consistency," there can be specialized heuristics that apply to particular systems|last: | That is the ultimate goal of our entire field|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 426 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts about getting a very quick glance at what is on a page and if they don't understand it then leaving it. Typically application users work a little harder at learning an application. The basic heuristics that I developed a long time ago are universal, so they apply to the web as well. But as well as these global heuristics that are always true, for example "consistency," there can be specialized heuristics that apply to particular systems| | JP: One last question-how do you think the web will develop? What will we see next, what do you expect the future to bring? JN: I hope we will abandon the page metaphor and reach back to the earlier days of hypertext. There are other ideas that would help people navigate the web better. The web is really an "article-reading" interface|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 426 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts about getting a very quick glance at what is on a page and if they don't understand it then leaving it. Typically application users work a little harder at learning an application. The basic heuristics that I developed a long time ago are universal, so they apply to the web as well. But as well as these global heuristics that are always true, for example "consistency," there can be specialized heuristics that apply to particular systems| | My website useit.com, for example, is mainly articles, but for many other things people need a different interface, the current interface just does not work. I hope we will evolve a more interesting, useful interface that I'll call the "Internet desktop," which would have a control panel for your own environment, or another metaphor would be "your personal secretary." Instead of the old goal where the computer spits out more information, the goal would be for the computer to protect you from too much information. You shouldn't have to actually go and read all those webpages. You should have something that would help you prioritize your time so you would get the most out of the web. But, pragmatically speaking, these are not going to come any time soon. My prediction has been that Explorer Version 8 will be the first good web browser and that is still my prediction, but there are still a few versions to come before we reach that level. The more short-term prediction is really that designers will take much more responsibility for content and usability of the web. We need to write webpages so that people can read them. For instance, we need headlines that make sense. Even something as simple as a headline is a user interface, because it's now being used interactively, not as in a magazine where you just look at it. So writing the headline, writing the content, designing the navigation are jobs for the individual website designers. In combination, such decisions are really defining the user experience of the network economy. That's why we really have an obligation, every one of us, because we are building the new world and if the new world turns out to be miserable, we have only ourselves to blame, not Bill Gates. We've got to design the web for the way users behave. |
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 426 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts about getting a very quick glance at what is on a page and if they don't understand it then leaving it. Typically application users work a little harder at learning an application. The basic heuristics that I developed a long time ago are universal, so they apply to the web as well. But as well as these global heuristics that are always true, for example "consistency," there can be specialized heuristics that apply to particular systems| | Chapter 1 4 Testing and modeling users 14.1 Introduction 14.2 User testing 14.2.1 Testing MEDLINEplus 14.3 Doing user testing 14.3.1 Determine the goals and explore the questions 1 4.3.2 Choose the paradigm and techniques 14.3.3 Identify the ~ractical issues: Design typical tasks 14.3.4 Identify the practical issues: Select typical users 14.3.5 Identify the practical issues: Prepare the testing conditions 14.3.6 Identify the practical issues: Plan how to run the tests 14.3.7 Deal with ethical issues 14.3.8 Evaluate, analyze and present the data 14.4 Experiments 14.4.1 Variables and conditions 14.4.2 Allocation of participants to conditions 14.4.3 Other practical issues 14.4.4 Data collection and analysis 14.5 Predictive models 14.5.1 The GOMS model 14.5.2 The Keystroke level model 14.5.3 Benefits and limitations of WMS 14.5.4 Fitts' Law 14.1 Introduction A central aspect of interaction design is user testing. User testing involves measuring the performance of typical users doing typical tasks in controlled laboratory-like conditions|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 426 Chapter 13 Asking users and experts about getting a very quick glance at what is on a page and if they don't understand it then leaving it. Typically application users work a little harder at learning an application. The basic heuristics that I developed a long time ago are universal, so they apply to the web as well. But as well as these global heuristics that are always true, for example "consistency," there can be specialized heuristics that apply to particular systems| | Its goal is to obtain objective performance data to show how usable a system or product is in terms of usability goals, such as ease of use or learnability. More generally, usability testing relies on a combination of techniques including observation, questionnaires and interviews as well as user testing, but user testing is of central concern, and in this chapter we focus upon it. We also examine key issues in experimental design because user testing has developed from experimental practice, and although there are important differences between them there is also commonality. |
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 430 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users The last part of the chapter considers how user behavior can be modeled to predict usability. Here we examine two modeling approaches (based on psychological theory) that have been used to predict user performance. Both come from the well-known GOMS family of approaches: the GOMS model and the Keystroke level model. We also discuss Fitts' Law| | 430 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users The last part of the chapter considers how user behavior can be modeled to predict usability. Here we examine two modeling approaches (based on psychological theory) that have been used to predict user performance. Both come from the well-known GOMS family of approaches: the GOMS model and the Keystroke level model. We also discuss Fitts' Law|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 430 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users The last part of the chapter considers how user behavior can be modeled to predict usability. Here we examine two modeling approaches (based on psychological theory) that have been used to predict user performance. Both come from the well-known GOMS family of approaches: the GOMS model and the Keystroke level model. We also discuss Fitts' Law|last: | The main aims of this chapter are to: Explain how to do user testing|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 430 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users The last part of the chapter considers how user behavior can be modeled to predict usability. Here we examine two modeling approaches (based on psychological theory) that have been used to predict user performance. Both come from the well-known GOMS family of approaches: the GOMS model and the Keystroke level model. We also discuss Fitts' Law|last: | Discuss how and why a user test differs from an experiment|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 430 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users The last part of the chapter considers how user behavior can be modeled to predict usability. Here we examine two modeling approaches (based on psychological theory) that have been used to predict user performance. Both come from the well-known GOMS family of approaches: the GOMS model and the Keystroke level model. We also discuss Fitts' Law|last: | Discuss the contribution of user testing to usability testing|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 430 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users The last part of the chapter considers how user behavior can be modeled to predict usability. Here we examine two modeling approaches (based on psychological theory) that have been used to predict user performance. Both come from the well-known GOMS family of approaches: the GOMS model and the Keystroke level model. We also discuss Fitts' Law|last: | Discuss how to design simple experiments|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 430 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users The last part of the chapter considers how user behavior can be modeled to predict usability. Here we examine two modeling approaches (based on psychological theory) that have been used to predict user performance. Both come from the well-known GOMS family of approaches: the GOMS model and the Keystroke level model. We also discuss Fitts' Law| | Describe the GOMS model, the Keystroke level model and Fitts' law and discuss when these techniques are useful|
Pluralistic walkthroughs "Plurali , 430 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users The last part of the chapter considers how user behavior can be modeled to predict usability. Here we examine two modeling approaches (based on psychological theory) that have been used to predict user performance. Both come from the well-known GOMS family of approaches: the GOMS model and the Keystroke level model. We also discuss Fitts' Law|last: | Explain how to do a simple keystroke level analysis|
User testing User testing is an app ,  | 14.2 User testing User testing is an applied form of experimentation used by developers to test whether the product they develop is usable by the intended user population to achieve their tasks (Dumas and Redish, 1999). In user testing the time it takes typical users to complete clearly defined, typical tasks is measured and the number and type of errors they make are recorded. Often the routes that users take through tasks are also noted, particularly in web-searching tasks. Making sense of this data is helped by observational data, answers to user-satisfaction questionnaires and interviews, and key stroke logs, which is why these techniques are used along with user testing in usability studies|
User testing User testing is an app ,  | The aim of an experiment is to answer a question or hypothesis to discover new knowledge. The simplest way that scientists do this is by investigating the relationship between two things, known as variables. This is done by changing one of them and observing what happens to the other. To eliminate any other influences that could distort the results of this manipulation, the scientist attempts to control the experimental environment as much as possible|
User testing User testing is an app ,  | In the early days, experiments were the cornerstone of research and development in user-centered design. For example, the Xerox Star team did experiments to determine how many buttons to put on a mouse, as described in Box 14.1. Other early experimental research in HCI examined such things as how many items to put in a menu and how to design icons|
User testing User testing is an app ,  | Because user testing has features in common with scientific experiments, it is sometimes confused with experiments done for research purposes. Both measure performance. However, user testing is a systematic approach to evaluating user performance in order to inform and improve usability design, whereas research aims to discover new knowledge|
User testing User testing is an app ,  | Research requires that the experimental procedure be rigorous and carefully documented so that it can be replicated by other researchers. User testing should |
User testing User testing is an app ,  | ~ 14.2 User testing 431 be carefully planned and executed, but real-world constraints must be taken into account and compromises made. It is rarely exactly replicable, though it should be possible to repeat the tests and obtain similar findings. Experiments are usually validated using statistical tests, whereas user testing rarely employs statistics other than means and standard deviations|
User testing User testing is an app ,  | Typically 5-12 users are involved in user testing (Dumas and Redish, 1999), but often there are fewer and compromises are made to work within budget and schedule constraints. "Quick and dirty7 ' tests involving just one or two users are frequently done to get quick feedback about a design idea. Research experiments generally involve more participants, more tightly controlled conditions, and more extensive data analysis in which statistical analysis is essential. |
User testing User testing is an app , 432 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users 1 4.2.1 Testing MEDLINEplus In Chapter 13 we described how heuristic evaluation was used to identify usability problems in the National Library of Medicine (NLM) MEDLINEplus website (Figure 14.1 Cogdill, 1999). We now return to that study and focus on how the user testing was done to evaluate changes made after heuristic evaluation. This case study exemplifies the kinds of issues to be considered in user testing, including developing tasks and test procedures, and approaches to data collection and analysis| | 432 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users 1 4.2.1 Testing MEDLINEplus In Chapter 13 we described how heuristic evaluation was used to identify usability problems in the National Library of Medicine (NLM) MEDLINEplus website (Figure 14.1 Cogdill, 1999). We now return to that study and focus on how the user testing was done to evaluate changes made after heuristic evaluation. This case study exemplifies the kinds of issues to be considered in user testing, including developing tasks and test procedures, and approaches to data collection and analysis|
User testing User testing is an app , 432 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users 1 4.2.1 Testing MEDLINEplus In Chapter 13 we described how heuristic evaluation was used to identify usability problems in the National Library of Medicine (NLM) MEDLINEplus website (Figure 14.1 Cogdill, 1999). We now return to that study and focus on how the user testing was done to evaluate changes made after heuristic evaluation. This case study exemplifies the kinds of issues to be considered in user testing, including developing tasks and test procedures, and approaches to data collection and analysis| | Goals and questions The goal of the study was to identify usability problems in the revised interface|
User testing User testing is an app , 432 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users 1 4.2.1 Testing MEDLINEplus In Chapter 13 we described how heuristic evaluation was used to identify usability problems in the National Library of Medicine (NLM) MEDLINEplus website (Figure 14.1 Cogdill, 1999). We now return to that study and focus on how the user testing was done to evaluate changes made after heuristic evaluation. This case study exemplifies the kinds of issues to be considered in user testing, including developing tasks and test procedures, and approaches to data collection and analysis| | More specifically, the evaluators wanted to know if the revised way of categorizing information, suggested by the expert evaluators, worked. They also wanted to check that users could navigate the system to find the information they needed. Navigating around large websites can be a major usability problem, so it was important to check that the design of MEDLINEplus supported users' navigation strategies|
User testing User testing is an app , 432 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users 1 4.2.1 Testing MEDLINEplus In Chapter 13 we described how heuristic evaluation was used to identify usability problems in the National Library of Medicine (NLM) MEDLINEplus website (Figure 14.1 Cogdill, 1999). We now return to that study and focus on how the user testing was done to evaluate changes made after heuristic evaluation. This case study exemplifies the kinds of issues to be considered in user testing, including developing tasks and test procedures, and approaches to data collection and analysis| | Selection of participants MEDLINEplus was tested with nine participants selected from primary health care practices in the Washington, DC metropolitan area. This was accomplished by Figure 1 4.1 Home page of MEDLINEplus. |
User testing 433 placing recruitmen ,  | 14.2 User testing 433 placing recruitment posters in the reception areas of two medical practices. People who wanted to participate were asked to complete a brief questionnaire, which asked about age, experience in using the web, and frequency of seeking health-related information. Dr. Cogdill, a usability specialist, then called all those who used the web more than twice a month. He explained that they would be involved in testing a product from the NLM, but did not mention MEDLINEplus so that potential testers would not review the site before doing the tests. Seven of the nine participants were women because balancing for gender was considered less important than web experience. It was important to find people in the Washington, DC region so that they could come to the test center and for the number of participants to fall within the range of 6-12 recommended by usability experts (Dumas and Redish, 1999)|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen ,  | Development of the tasks The following five tasks were developed in collaboration with NLM staff to check the categorizing schemes suggested by the expert evaluators and navigation support|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen ,  | The topics chosen for the tasks were identified from questions most frequently asked by website users: Task 1: Find information about whether a dark bump on your shoulder might be skin cancer|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , last: | Task 2: Find information about whether it's safe to use Prozac during pregnancy|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , last: | Task 3: Find information about whether there is a vaccine for hepatitis C|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen ,  | Task 4: Find recommendations about the treatment of breast cancer, specifically the use of mastectomies|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , last: | Task 5: Find information about the dangers associated with drinking alcohol during pregnancy|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , last: | The efficacy of each task was reviewed by colleagues and pilot tested|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen ,  | The test procedure The procedure involved five scripts that were prepared in advance and were used for each participant to ensure that all participants were given the same information and were treated in the same way. We present these scripts in figures to distinguish them from our own text. They are included here in their original form|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen ,  | Testing was done in laboratory-like conditions. When the participants arrived they were greeted individually by the evaluator. He followed the script in Figure 14.2|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen ,  | The participant was then asked to sit down at a monitor, and the goals of the study and test procedure were explained. Figure 14.3 shows the script used by the evaluator to explain the procedure to each participant (Cogdill, 1999), so that any performance differences that occurred among participants could not be attributed to different procedures. |
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , 434 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Thank you very much for participating in this study|last: | 434 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Thank you very much for participating in this study|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , 434 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Thank you very much for participating in this study| | The goal of this project is to evaluate the interface of MEDLINEplus. The results of our evaluation will be summarized and reported to the National Library of Medicine, the federal agency that has developed MEDLINEplus. Have you ever used MEDLINEplus before? You will be asked to use MEDLINEplus to resolve a series of specific, health-related information needs. You will be asked to "think aloud" as you search for information with MEDLINEplus|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , 434 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Thank you very much for participating in this study| | We will be videotaping only what appears on the computer screen. What you say as you search for information will also be recorded. Your face will not be videotaped, and your identity will remain confidential|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , 1'11 need you to review and sign this statement of informed consent. Please let me know if you have any questions about it. (He hands an informed consent form similar to the one in Box 11.3 to the participant.) Figure 14.2 The script used to greet participants in the MEDLINEplus study| | 1'11 need you to review and sign this statement of informed consent. Please let me know if you have any questions about it. (He hands an informed consent form similar to the one in Box 11.3 to the participant.) Figure 14.2 The script used to greet participants in the MEDLINEplus study|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , 1'11 need you to review and sign this statement of informed consent. Please let me know if you have any questions about it. (He hands an informed consent form similar to the one in Box 11.3 to the participant.) Figure 14.2 The script used to greet participants in the MEDLINEplus study| | - We'll start with a general overview of MEDLINEplus. It's a web-based product developed by the National Library of Medicine. Its purpose is to link users with sources of authoritative health information on the web|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , 1'11 need you to review and sign this statement of informed consent. Please let me know if you have any questions about it. (He hands an informed consent form similar to the one in Box 11.3 to the participant.) Figure 14.2 The script used to greet participants in the MEDLINEplus study| | The purpose of our work today is to explore the MEDLINEplus interface to identify features that could be improved. We're also interested in finding out about features that are particularly helpful|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , 1'11 need you to review and sign this statement of informed consent. Please let me know if you have any questions about it. (He hands an informed consent form similar to the one in Box 11.3 to the participant.) Figure 14.2 The script used to greet participants in the MEDLINEplus study| | In a few minutes I'll give you five tasks. For each task you'll use MEDLINEplus to find health-related information|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , 1'11 need you to review and sign this statement of informed consent. Please let me know if you have any questions about it. (He hands an informed consent form similar to the one in Box 11.3 to the participant.) Figure 14.2 The script used to greet participants in the MEDLINEplus study| | As you use MEDLINEplus to find the information for each task, please keep in mind that it is MEDLINEplus that is the subject of this evaluation-not you|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , 1'11 need you to review and sign this statement of informed consent. Please let me know if you have any questions about it. (He hands an informed consent form similar to the one in Box 11.3 to the participant.) Figure 14.2 The script used to greet participants in the MEDLINEplus study| | You should feel free to work on each task at a pace that is normal and comfortable for you. We will be keeping track of how long it takes you to complete each task, but you should not feel rushed. Please work on each task at a pace that is normal and comfortable for you. If any task takes you longer than twenty minutes, we will ask you to move on to the next task. The Home button on the browser menu has been set to the MEDLINEplus homepage. We'll ask you to return to this page before starting a new task|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , 1'11 need you to review and sign this statement of informed consent. Please let me know if you have any questions about it. (He hands an informed consent form similar to the one in Box 11.3 to the participant.) Figure 14.2 The script used to greet participants in the MEDLINEplus study| | As you work on each task, I'd like you to imagine that it's something you or someone close to you needs to know|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , 1'11 need you to review and sign this statement of informed consent. Please let me know if you have any questions about it. (He hands an informed consent form similar to the one in Box 11.3 to the participant.) Figure 14.2 The script used to greet participants in the MEDLINEplus study| | All answers can be found on MEDLINEplus or on one of the sites it points to. But if you feel you are unable to complete a task and would like to stop, please say so and we'll move on to the next task|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , 1'11 need you to review and sign this statement of informed consent. Please let me know if you have any questions about it. (He hands an informed consent form similar to the one in Box 11.3 to the participant.) Figure 14.2 The script used to greet participants in the MEDLINEplus study| | Before we proceed, do you have any questions at this point? Figure 14.3 The script used to explain the procedure|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , 1'11 need you to review and sign this statement of informed consent. Please let me know if you have any questions about it. (He hands an informed consent form similar to the one in Box 11.3 to the participant.) Figure 14.2 The script used to greet participants in the MEDLINEplus study| | Before starting the main tasks the participants were invited to explore the website for up to 10 minutes and to think aloud as they moved through the site. Figure 14.4 contains the script used to describe how to do this exploration task|
User testing 433 placing recruitmen , 1'11 need you to review and sign this statement of informed consent. Please let me know if you have any questions about it. (He hands an informed consent form similar to the one in Box 11.3 to the participant.) Figure 14.2 The script used to greet participants in the MEDLINEplus study| | Each participant was then asked to work through the five tasks and was allowed up to 20 minutes for each task. If they did not finish a task they were asked to stop and if they forgot to think out loud or appeared to be stuck they were prompted. The evaluator used the script in Figure 14.5 to direct participants' behavior (Cogdill, 1999). |
User testing 435 Before we begin th ,  | 14.2 User testing 435 Before we begin the tasks, I'd like you to explore MEDLINEplus independently for as long as ten minutes|
User testing 435 Before we begin th ,  | As you explore, please "think aloud." That is, please tell us your thoughts as you encounter the different features of MEDLINEplus|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , last: | Feel free to explore any topics that are of interest to you|
User testing 435 Before we begin th ,  | If you complete your independent exploration before the ten minutes are up, please let me know and we'll proceed with the tasks. Again, please remember to tell us what you're thinking as you explore MEDLINEplus|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , last: | Figure 14.4 The script used to introduce and describe the initial exploration task|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , last: | Please read aloud this task before beginning your use of MEDLINEplus to find the information|
User testing 435 Before we begin th ,  | After completing each task, please return to the MEDLINEplus home page by clicking on the "home" button|
User testing 435 Before we begin th ,  | Prompts: "What are you thinking?" "Are you stuck?" "Please tell me what you're thinking." [If time exceeds 20 minutes: " I need to ask you to stop working on this task and proceed to the next one."] Figure 14.5 The script used to direct participants' behavior|
User testing 435 Before we begin th ,  | When all the tasks were completed, the participant was given a post-test questionnaire consisting of items derived from the QUIS user satisfaction questionnaire (Chin et al., 1988) described in Chapter 13. Finally, when the questionnaire was completed, there was a debriefing (Figure 14.6) in which participants were asked for their opinions|
User testing 435 Before we begin th ,  | How did you feel about your performance on the tasks overall? Tell me about what happened when [cite problem/error/excessive time]|
User testing 435 Before we begin th ,  | What would you say was the best thing about the MEDLINEplus interface? What would you say was the worst thing about the MEDLINEplus interface? Figure 14.6 The debriefing script used in the MEDLINEplus study|
User testing 435 Before we begin th ,  | Data collection Criteria for successfully completing each task were developed in advance. For example, participants had to find and access between 3-9 web page URLs. Each user's search moves were then recorded for each task. For example, the log revealed that Participant A visited the online resources shown in Table 14.1 while trying to complete the first task|
User testing 435 Before we begin th ,  | Completion times were automatically recorded and calculated from the video and interaction log data. The data from the questionnaire and the debriefing session |
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 436 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Table 14.1 The resources visited by participant A for the first task| | 436 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Table 14.1 The resources visited by participant A for the first task|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 436 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Table 14.1 The resources visited by participant A for the first task| | Databases Home MEDLINEIPubMed: "dark bump" MEDLINEIPubMed: "bump" Home Dictionaries External: Online Medical Dictionary Home Health Topics Melanoma (HT) External: American Cancer Society were also used to help understand each participant's performance. The data collected contained the following: start time and completion time page count (i.e., pages accessed during the search task) external site count (i.e., number of external sites accessed during the search task) medical publications accessed during the search task the user's search path any negative comments or mannerisms observed during the search user satisfaction questionnaire data What do you notice about how the user testing fits into the overall usability testing? Comment The user testing is closely integrated with the other techniques used in usability testingquestionnaires, interviews, thinkaloud, etc. In concert they provide a much broader picture of the user's interaction than any single technique would show|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 436 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Table 14.1 The resources visited by participant A for the first task| | Data analysis Analysis of the data focused on such things as: website organization such as arrangement of topics, menu depth, organization of links, etc|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 436 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Table 14.1 The resources visited by participant A for the first task|last: | browsing efficiency such as navigation menu location, text density, etc|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 436 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Table 14.1 The resources visited by participant A for the first task|last: | the search features such as search interface consistency, feedback, terms, etc|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 436 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Table 14.1 The resources visited by participant A for the first task| | For example, Table 14.2 contains the performance data for the nine subjects for task 1. It shows the time to complete the task and the different kinds of searches undertaken. Similar tables were produced for each task. The exploration and questionnaire data was also analyzed to help explain the results. |
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 1 14.2 User testing 437 Table 14.2 Performance data for task 1 : Find information about whether a dark bump on your shoulder might be skin cancer. Mean (M) and standard deviation (SD) for all subieck are also shown| | 1 14.2 User testing 437 Table 14.2 Performance data for task 1 : Find information about whether a dark bump on your shoulder might be skin cancer. Mean (M) and standard deviation (SD) for all subieck are also shown|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 1 14.2 User testing 437 Table 14.2 Performance data for task 1 : Find information about whether a dark bump on your shoulder might be skin cancer. Mean (M) and standard deviation (SD) for all subieck are also shown| | Time Reason External MEDLINE to nearest for task MEDLINEplus sites MEDLINEplus publication Participant minute termination Pages accessed searches searches A 12 Successful 5 2 0 2 completion B 12 Participant 3 2 3 requested termination 14 Successful 2 1 0 0 completion D 13 Participant 5 2 1 requested termination E 10 Successful 5 3 1 0 completion 9 Participant 3 1 0 requested termination 5 Successful 2 1 0 0 completion 12 Successful 3 1 0 completion 6 Successful 3 1 0 completion Examine Table 14.2|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 1 14.2 User testing 437 Table 14.2 Performance data for task 1 : Find information about whether a dark bump on your shoulder might be skin cancer. Mean (M) and standard deviation (SD) for all subieck are also shown| | (a) Why are letters used to indicate participants? (b) What do you notice about the completion times when compared with the reasons for terminating tasks (i.e., completion records)? (c) What does the rest of the data tell you? Comment (a) Participants' names should be kept confidential in reports, so a coding scheme is used|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 1 14.2 User testing 437 Table 14.2 Performance data for task 1 : Find information about whether a dark bump on your shoulder might be skin cancer. Mean (M) and standard deviation (SD) for all subieck are also shown|last: | (b) Completion times are not closely associated with successful completion of this task|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 1 14.2 User testing 437 Table 14.2 Performance data for task 1 : Find information about whether a dark bump on your shoulder might be skin cancer. Mean (M) and standard deviation (SD) for all subieck are also shown| | For example, completion times range from 5-14 minutes for successful completion and from 9-13 minutes for those who asked to terminate the task. |
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 438 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (c) From the data it appears that there may have been several ways to complete the task successfully. For example, participants A and C both completed the task successfully but their records of visiting the different resources differ considerably| | 438 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (c) From the data it appears that there may have been several ways to complete the task successfully. For example, participants A and C both completed the task successfully but their records of visiting the different resources differ considerably|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 438 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (c) From the data it appears that there may have been several ways to complete the task successfully. For example, participants A and C both completed the task successfully but their records of visiting the different resources differ considerably| | I Conclusions and reporting the findings The main finding was that reaching external sites was often difficult. Furthermore, analysis of the search moves revealed that several participants experienced difficulty finding the health topics pages devoted to different types of cancer. The posttest questionnaire showed that participants' opinions of MEDLINEplus were fairly neutral. They rated it well for ease of learning but poorly for ease of use because there were problems in going back to previous screens. These results were fed back to the developers in an oral presentation and in a written report|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 438 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (c) From the data it appears that there may have been several ways to complete the task successfully. For example, participants A and C both completed the task successfully but their records of visiting the different resources differ considerably| | (a) Was the way in which participants were selected appropriate and were there enough participants? Justify your comments|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 438 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (c) From the data it appears that there may have been several ways to complete the task successfully. For example, participants A and C both completed the task successfully but their records of visiting the different resources differ considerably| | (b) Why do you think participants were asked to read each new task aloud before starting it and to return to the home page? 1 (c) Was the briefing material adequate? Justify your comment|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 438 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (c) From the data it appears that there may have been several ways to complete the task successfully. For example, participants A and C both completed the task successfully but their records of visiting the different resources differ considerably| | Comments (a) This way of selecting participants was appropriate for user testing. The evaluator was careful to get a number of representative users across the user age range from both genders. Participants were screened to ensure that they were experienced web users|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 438 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (c) From the data it appears that there may have been several ways to complete the task successfully. For example, participants A and C both completed the task successfully but their records of visiting the different resources differ considerably| | The evaluator decided to select from a local volunteer pool of participants, to ensure that he got people who wanted to be involved and who lived locally. Since using the web is voluntary, this is a reasonable approach. The number of participants was adequate for user testing|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 438 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (c) From the data it appears that there may have been several ways to complete the task successfully. For example, participants A and C both completed the task successfully but their records of visiting the different resources differ considerably| | (b) This was to make it easy for the evaluator to detect the beginning of a new task on the video log. Sending the participants back to the home page before starting each new task ensured that logging always started from the same place. It also helped to orient the participants|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 438 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (c) From the data it appears that there may have been several ways to complete the task successfully. For example, participants A and C both completed the task successfully but their records of visiting the different resources differ considerably| | (c) The briefing material was full and carefully prepared but not excessive. Participants were told what was expected of them and the prompts were preplanned to ensure that each participant was treated in the same way. An informed consent form was also included|
User testing 435 Before we begin th , 438 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (c) From the data it appears that there may have been several ways to complete the task successfully. For example, participants A and C both completed the task successfully but their records of visiting the different resources differ considerably| | i 14.3 Doing user testing There are many things to consider before doing user testing. Controlling the test conditions is central, so careful planning is necessary. This involves ensuring that the conditions are the same for each participant, that what is being measured is indicative of what is being tested and that assumptions are made explicit in the test design. Working through the D E C I D E framework will help you identify the necessary steps for a successful study. |
Doing user testing 439 THE WALL STR ,  | 14.3 Doing user testing 439 THE WALL STREET JOURNAL "Oh, the commute in to work was a breeze, but I've been stuck in Internet Ixaffic for four hours!" 14.3.1 Determine the goals and Explore the questions User testing is most suitable for testing prototypes and working systems. Although the goal of a test can be broad, such as determining how usable a product is, more specific questions are needed to focus the study, such as, "can users complete a certain task within a certain time, or find a particular item, or find the answer to a question" as in the MEDLINEplus study? 14.3.2 Choose the paradigm and techniques User testing falls in the usability testing paradigm and sometimes the term "user testing" is used synonymously with usaplity testing. It involves recording data using a combination of video and interaction logging, user satisfaction questionnaires, and interviews|
ldentify the practical issues: De ,  | 14.3.3 ldentify the practical issues: Design iypical tasks Deciding on which tasks to test users' performance is critical. Typically, a number of "completion" tasks are set, such as finding a website, writing a document or creating a spreadsheet. Quantitative performance measures are obtained during the tests that produce the following types of data (Wixon and Wilson, 1997): time to complete a task time to complete a task after a specified time away from the product |
ldentify the practical issues: De , 440 Chapier 14 Testing and modeling users number and type of errors per task number of errors per unit of time number of navigations to online help or manuals number of users making a particular error number of users completing a task successfully As Deborah Mayhew (1999) reports, these measures slot neatly into usability engineering specifications which specify: current level of performance minimum acceptable level of performance target level of performance The type of test prepared will depend on the type of prototype available for testing as well as study goals and questions. For example, whether testing a paper prototype, a simulation, or a limited part of a system's functionality will influence the breadth and complexity of the tasks set| | 440 Chapier 14 Testing and modeling users number and type of errors per task number of errors per unit of time number of navigations to online help or manuals number of users making a particular error number of users completing a task successfully As Deborah Mayhew (1999) reports, these measures slot neatly into usability engineering specifications which specify: current level of performance minimum acceptable level of performance target level of performance The type of test prepared will depend on the type of prototype available for testing as well as study goals and questions. For example, whether testing a paper prototype, a simulation, or a limited part of a system's functionality will influence the breadth and complexity of the tasks set|
ldentify the practical issues: De , 440 Chapier 14 Testing and modeling users number and type of errors per task number of errors per unit of time number of navigations to online help or manuals number of users making a particular error number of users completing a task successfully As Deborah Mayhew (1999) reports, these measures slot neatly into usability engineering specifications which specify: current level of performance minimum acceptable level of performance target level of performance The type of test prepared will depend on the type of prototype available for testing as well as study goals and questions. For example, whether testing a paper prototype, a simulation, or a limited part of a system's functionality will influence the breadth and complexity of the tasks set| | Generally, each task lasts between 5 and 20 minutes and is designed to probe a problem. Tasks are often straightforward and require the user to find this or do that, but occasionally they are more complex, such as create a design, join an online community or solve a problem, like those described in the MEDLINEplus and HutchWorld studies. Easy tasks at the beginning of each testing session will help build users' confidence|
Identify practical issues: Select ,  | 14.3.4 Identify practical issues: Select typical users Knowing users' characteristics will help to identify typical users for the user testing|
Identify practical issues: Select ,  | But what is a typical user? Some products are targeted at specific types of users, for example, seniors, children, novices, or experienced people. HutchWorld, for example, has a specific user audience, cancer patients, but their experience with the web differs so a range of users with different experience was important. It is usually advisable to have equal numbers of males and females unless the product is specifically being developed for the male or female market. One of the most important characteristics is previous experience with similar systems. If the user population is large you can use a short questionnaire to help identify testers, as in the MEDLINEplus study|
Identify practical issues: Select ,  | Why is it important to select a representative sample of users whenever possible? Comment It is important to have a representative sample to ensure that the findings of the user test can be generalized to the rest of the user population. Selecting participants according to clear objectives helps evaluators to avoid unwanted bias. For example, if 90% of the participants testing a product for 9-12 year-olds were 12, it would not be representative of the full age range. The results of the test would be distorted by the large group of users at the top-end of the age range. |
Identify practical issues: Select ,  | I 14.3 Doing user testing 4.41 14.3.5 Identify ~ractical issues: Prepare the testing conditions User testing requires the testing environment to be controlled to prevent unwanted influences and noise that will distort the results. Many companies, such as Microsoft and IBM, test their products in specially designed usability laboratories to try to prevent this (Lund, 1994). These facilities often include a main testing laboratory, with recording equipment and the product being tested, and an observation room where the evaluators sit and subsequently analyze the data. There may also be a reception area for testers, a storage area, and a viewing room for observers|
Identify practical issues: Select , last: | Such labs are very expensive and labor-intensive to run|
Identify practical issues: Select , last: | The space may be arranged to superficially mimic features of the real world|
Identify practical issues: Select ,  | For example, if the product is an office product or for use in a hotel reception area, the laboratory can be set up to match. But in other respects it is artificial. Soundproofing and lack of windows, telephones, fax machines, co-workers, etc. eliminate most of the normal sources of distraction. Typically there are two to three wallmounted video cameras that record the user's behavior, such as hand movements, facial expression, and general body language. Utterances are also recorded and often a keystroke log|
Identify practical issues: Select ,  | The observation room is usually separated from the main laboratory by a oneway mirror so that evaluators can watch testers but testers cannot see them. Figure 14.7 shows a typical arrangement. Video and other data is fed through to monitors Figure 14.7 A usability laboratory in which evaluators watch participants on a monitor and through a oneway mirror. |
Identify practical issues: Select ,  | I 442 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users in the recording room. While the test is going on, the evaluators observe and annotate the video stream, indicating events for later more detailed analysis|
Identify practical issues: Select , last: | The viewing room is like a small auditorium with rows of seats at different levels|
Identify practical issues: Select ,  | It is designed so that managers and others can watch the tests. Video monitors display video and the managers overlook the observation room and into the laboratory through one-way mirrors. Generally only large companies can afford this extra room and it is becoming less common|
Identify practical issues: Select ,  | The reception area also has bathroom facilities so that testers do not have to go into the outside world during a session. Similarly, telephones in the laboratory do not connect with the outside world, so there are no distractions. The only communication occurs between the tester and the evaluators. The laboratory can be modified to include other features of the environment in which the product will be used if necessary, but it is always tightly controlled|
Identify practical issues: Select ,  | Many companies and researchers cannot afford to have a usability laboratory, or even to rent one. Instead, they buy mobile usability equipment (e.g., video, interaction logging system) and convert a nearby room into a makeshift laboratory. The mobile laboratory can also be taken into companies and packed away when not needed. This kind of makeshift laboratory is more amenable to the needs of user testing. Modifications may have to be made to test different types of applications. For example, Chris Nodder and his colleagues at Microsoft had to partition the space when they were testing early versions of NetMeeting, a videoconferencing product, in the mid-1990s, as Figure 14.8 shows (Nodder et al., 1999)|
Identify practical issues: Select ,  | Evaluation: Participants communicating with each other using NetMeeting / \ Usability engineer uses another PC to Figure 14.8 The testing arrangement used for Netbecome the third participant Meeting videoconferencing system|
jdentify practical issues: plan h ,  | 14.3.6 jdentify practical issues: plan how to run the tests A schedule and scripts for running the tests, such as those used in MEDLINEplus, should be prepared beforehand. The equipment should be set up and a pilot test |
jdentify practical issues: plan h , 1 4.4 Experiments 443 performed to make sure that everything is working, the instructions are clear, and there are no unforeseen glitches| | 1 4.4 Experiments 443 performed to make sure that everything is working, the instructions are clear, and there are no unforeseen glitches|
jdentify practical issues: plan h , 1 4.4 Experiments 443 performed to make sure that everything is working, the instructions are clear, and there are no unforeseen glitches| | It's a good idea to start the session with a familiarization task, such as browsing a website in a web usability study, so that participants can get used to the equipment before testing starts. An easy first task encourages confidence; ending with a fairly easy one makes participants go away feeling good. A contingency plan is needed for dealing with people who spend too long on a task, as in MEDLINEplus|
jdentify practical issues: plan h , 1 4.4 Experiments 443 performed to make sure that everything is working, the instructions are clear, and there are no unforeseen glitches| | A query from the evaluator asking if the participant is all right can help. If the participant gets really stuck then the evaluator should tell him to move on to the next part of the task|
jdentify practical issues: plan h , 1 4.4 Experiments 443 performed to make sure that everything is working, the instructions are clear, and there are no unforeseen glitches| | Long tasks and a long testing procedure should be avoided. It is a good idea to keep the session under one hour. Remember, all the data that is collected has to be analyzed and if you have nine participants who together generate nine hours of video, there is a lot to review and analyze|
Deal with ethical issues As in al ,  | 14.3.7 Deal with ethical issues As in all types of evaluation, you need to prepare and plan to administer an informed consent form. If the study is situated in a usability laboratory, it is also necessary to point out the presence of one-way mirrors, video cameras, and use of interaction logging|
Deal with ethical issues As in al , 1 4.3.8 Evaluate, analyze, and present the data Typically performance measures (time to complete specified actions, number of errors, etc.) are recorded from video and interaction logs. Since most user tests involve a small number of participants, only simple descriptive statistics can be used to present findings: maximum, minimum, average for the group and sometimes standard deviation, which is a measure of the spread around the mean value. These basic measures enable evaluators to compare performance on different prototypes or systems or across different tasks. An increasing number of analysis tools are also available to support web usability analysis, particularly video analysis as mentioned in Chapter 12| | 1 4.3.8 Evaluate, analyze, and present the data Typically performance measures (time to complete specified actions, number of errors, etc.) are recorded from video and interaction logs. Since most user tests involve a small number of participants, only simple descriptive statistics can be used to present findings: maximum, minimum, average for the group and sometimes standard deviation, which is a measure of the spread around the mean value. These basic measures enable evaluators to compare performance on different prototypes or systems or across different tasks. An increasing number of analysis tools are also available to support web usability analysis, particularly video analysis as mentioned in Chapter 12|
Experiments Although classically pe ,  | 14.4 Experiments Although classically performed scientific experimentation is usually too expensive or just not practical for most usability evaluations, there are a few occasions when it is used. For example, in a case study about the testing of a voice response system discussed later in Chapter 15 plenty of participants were available. The development schedule was flexible, and the evaluators knew that quantitative results would be well received by their clients, so they adopted a more experimental approach than usual. For this reason, and because the roots of user testing are in scientific experimentation and many undergraduate projects involve experiments, we will discuss experimental design|
Experiments Although classically pe ,  | The aim of an experiment is to answer a question or to test a hypothesis that predicts a relationship between two or more events known as variables. For example, |
Experiments Although classically pe , 444 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users "Will the time to read a screen of text be different if 12-point Helvetica font is used instead of 12-point Times New Roman?" Such hypotheses are tested by manipulating one or some of the variables involved. The variable that the researcher manipulates is known as the independent variable, because the conditions to test this variable are set up independently before the experiment starts. In the example above, type font is the independent variable. The other variable, time to read the text, is called the dependent variable because the time to read the text depends on the way the experimenter manipulates the other variable, in this case which type font is used| | 444 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users "Will the time to read a screen of text be different if 12-point Helvetica font is used instead of 12-point Times New Roman?" Such hypotheses are tested by manipulating one or some of the variables involved. The variable that the researcher manipulates is known as the independent variable, because the conditions to test this variable are set up independently before the experiment starts. In the example above, type font is the independent variable. The other variable, time to read the text, is called the dependent variable because the time to read the text depends on the way the experimenter manipulates the other variable, in this case which type font is used|
Experiments Although classically pe , 444 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users "Will the time to read a screen of text be different if 12-point Helvetica font is used instead of 12-point Times New Roman?" Such hypotheses are tested by manipulating one or some of the variables involved. The variable that the researcher manipulates is known as the independent variable, because the conditions to test this variable are set up independently before the experiment starts. In the example above, type font is the independent variable. The other variable, time to read the text, is called the dependent variable because the time to read the text depends on the way the experimenter manipulates the other variable, in this case which type font is used| | It is advisable to consult someone who is knowledgeable about relevant statistical tests before doing most experiments, rather than wondering afterwards what to do with the data that is collected|
Experiments Although classically pe , 1 4.4.1 Variables and conditions Designs with one independent variable In order to test a hypothesis, the experimenter has to set up the experimental conditions and find ways to control other variables that could influence the test result. So for example, in the experiment in which type font is the independent variable, there are two conditions: Condition 1 = read screen of text in Helvetica font Condition 2 = read screen of text in Times New Roman font It is also helpful to have a control condition against which to compare the results of the experiment. For example, in the above test you could set up two control conditions: reading of the same text on printed paper, using Times font and reading of the same text on printed paper, using Helvetica font. The performance measures for both screen conditions could be compared with the paper versions| | 1 4.4.1 Variables and conditions Designs with one independent variable In order to test a hypothesis, the experimenter has to set up the experimental conditions and find ways to control other variables that could influence the test result. So for example, in the experiment in which type font is the independent variable, there are two conditions: Condition 1 = read screen of text in Helvetica font Condition 2 = read screen of text in Times New Roman font It is also helpful to have a control condition against which to compare the results of the experiment. For example, in the above test you could set up two control conditions: reading of the same text on printed paper, using Times font and reading of the same text on printed paper, using Helvetica font. The performance measures for both screen conditions could be compared with the paper versions|
Experiments Although classically pe , 1 4.4.1 Variables and conditions Designs with one independent variable In order to test a hypothesis, the experimenter has to set up the experimental conditions and find ways to control other variables that could influence the test result. So for example, in the experiment in which type font is the independent variable, there are two conditions: Condition 1 = read screen of text in Helvetica font Condition 2 = read screen of text in Times New Roman font It is also helpful to have a control condition against which to compare the results of the experiment. For example, in the above test you could set up two control conditions: reading of the same text on printed paper, using Times font and reading of the same text on printed paper, using Helvetica font. The performance measures for both screen conditions could be compared with the paper versions| | Designs with two or more independent variables Experiments are carried out in user testing usually to compare two or more conditions to see if users perform better in one condition than in the other. For example, we might wish to compare the existing design of a system (e.g., version 5.0) with a redesigned one (e.g., version 6.0). We would need to design a number of tasks that users would be tested on for both versions of the system and then compare their performance across these tasks. If their performance was statistically better in one condition compared with the other, we could say that the two versions were different|
Experiments Although classically pe , 1 4.4.1 Variables and conditions Designs with one independent variable In order to test a hypothesis, the experimenter has to set up the experimental conditions and find ways to control other variables that could influence the test result. So for example, in the experiment in which type font is the independent variable, there are two conditions: Condition 1 = read screen of text in Helvetica font Condition 2 = read screen of text in Times New Roman font It is also helpful to have a control condition against which to compare the results of the experiment. For example, in the above test you could set up two control conditions: reading of the same text on printed paper, using Times font and reading of the same text on printed paper, using Helvetica font. The performance measures for both screen conditions could be compared with the paper versions| | Supposing we were then interested in finding out whether the performance of different user groups was affected by the two versions of the system; how could we do this? We could split the users into two groups: those who are beginners and those who are expert users. We would then compare the performance of the two user groups across the two versions of the system. In so doing, we now have two independent variables each with two conditions: the version of the system and the experience of the user. |
Experiments 445 This gives us a 2 X , last: | 14.4 Experiments 445 This gives us a 2 X 2 design as shown in the table|
Experiments 445 This gives us a 2 X ,  | Original design Redesign Beginners Beginners Experts Experts Deciding what it means to "perform better" involves determining what to measure; that is, what the dependent variables should be. Two commonly used dependent variables are the time that it takes to complete a task and the number of errors that users make doing the task|
Experiments 445 This gives us a 2 X ,  | Hypothesis testing can also be extended to include more variables. For example, three variables each with two conditions gives 2 X 2 X 2. In each condition the aim is to test the main effects of each combination and look for any interactions among them|
Allocation of participants to con ,  | 14.4.2 Allocation of participants to conditions ~ The discussion so far has assumed that different participants will be used for each condition but sometimes this is not possible because there are not enough participants and at other times it is preferable to have all participants take part in all conditions|
Allocation of participants to con ,  | Three well-known approaches are used: different participants for all conditions, the same participants for all conditions, and matched pairs of participants|
Allocation of participants to con ,  | Different participants In different participant design a single group of participants is allocated randomly to each of the experimental conditions, so that different participants perform in different conditions. There are two major drawbacks with this arrangement. The first is making sure that you have enough participants. The second is that if small groups are used for each condition, then the effect of any individual differences among participants, such as differences in experience and expertise, becomes a problem|
Allocation of participants to con ,  | Randomly allocating the participants and pre-testing to identify any participants that differ strongly from the others helps. An advantage is that there are no ordering effects, caused by the influence of participants' experience of one set of tasks on performance on the next, as each participant only ever performs in one condition|
Allocation of participants to con ,  | Same participants In same-participant design, all participants perform in all conditions so only halfthe number of participants is needed; the main reason for this design is to lessen the impact of individual differences and to see how performance varies across conditions for each participant. However, it is important to ensure that the order in which participants perform tasks does not bias the results. For example, if there are two tasks, A and B, half the participants should do task A followed by task B and the other half should do task B followed by task A. This is known as counterbalancing. |
Allocation of participants to con , 446 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Counterbalancing neutralizes possible unfair effects of learning from the first task, i.e., the order effect| | 446 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Counterbalancing neutralizes possible unfair effects of learning from the first task, i.e., the order effect|
Allocation of participants to con , 446 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Counterbalancing neutralizes possible unfair effects of learning from the first task, i.e., the order effect| | Matched participants In matched-participants design, participants are matched in pairs based on certain user characteristics such as expertise and gender. Each pair is then randomly allocated to each experimental condition. This design is used when participants cannot perform in both conditions. The problem with this arrangement is that other important variables that haven't been taken into account may influence the results|
Allocation of participants to con , 446 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Counterbalancing neutralizes possible unfair effects of learning from the first task, i.e., the order effect| | For example, experience in using the web could influence the results of tests to evaluate the navigability of a website. So web expertise would be a good criterion for matching participants|
Allocation of participants to con , 446 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Counterbalancing neutralizes possible unfair effects of learning from the first task, i.e., the order effect| | The advantages and disadvantages of using different experimental designs are summarized in Table 14.3|
Allocation of participants to con , 446 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Counterbalancing neutralizes possible unfair effects of learning from the first task, i.e., the order effect| | Table 14.3 The advantages and disadvantages of different experimental designs Design Advantages Disadvantages Different participants No order effects Many participants needed|
Allocation of participants to con , 446 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Counterbalancing neutralizes possible unfair effects of learning from the first task, i.e., the order effect|last: | Individual differences among participants are a problem|
Allocation of participants to con , 446 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Counterbalancing neutralizes possible unfair effects of learning from the first task, i.e., the order effect|last: | Can be offset to some extent by randomly assigning to groups|
Allocation of participants to con , 446 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Counterbalancing neutralizes possible unfair effects of learning from the first task, i.e., the order effect| | Same participants Eliminates individual Need to counterbalance to differences between avoid ordering effects|
Allocation of participants to con , 446 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Counterbalancing neutralizes possible unfair effects of learning from the first task, i.e., the order effect|last: | experimental conditions|
Allocation of participants to con , 446 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Counterbalancing neutralizes possible unfair effects of learning from the first task, i.e., the order effect| | experimental conditions|: Matched participants Same as different participants, Can never be sure that but the effects of individual subjects are matched across differences are reduced. variables|
Other practical issues Just as in ,  | 14.4.3 Other practical issues Just as in user testing, there are many practical issues to consider and plan, for example where will the experiment be conducted, how will the equipment be setup, how will participants be introduced to the experiment, and what scripts are needed to standardize the procedure? Pilot studies are particularly valuable in identifying potential problems with the equipment or the experimental design|
Data collection and analysis Data ,  | 14.4.4 Data collection and analysis Data should be collected that measures user performance on the tasks set. These usually include response times, number of errors, and times to complete a task. |
Experiments 447 Analyzing the data  ,  | 14.4 Experiments 447 Analyzing the data involves knowing what to look for. Do the data sets from the two conditions look different or similar? Are there any extreme atypical values? If so, what do they reflect? Displaying the results on a graph will also help reveal differences|
Experiments 447 Analyzing the data  ,  | The response times, errors, etc. should be averaged across conditions to see if there are any marked differences. Simple statistical tests like t-tests can reveal if these are significant. For example, a t-test could reveal whether Helvetica or Times font is slower to read on a screen. If there was no significance then the hypothesis would have to be refuted, i.e., the claim that Helvetica font is easier to read is not true|
Experiments 447 Analyzing the data  ,  | Box 14.2 describes an experiment to test whether broad, shallow menu design is preferable to deep menus on the web. |
Experiments 447 Analyzing the data  , 448 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (a) What were the independent and dependent variables in this study? (b) Write two possible hypothesis statements| | 448 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (a) What were the independent and dependent variables in this study? (b) Write two possible hypothesis statements|
Experiments 447 Analyzing the data  , 448 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (a) What were the independent and dependent variables in this study? (b) Write two possible hypothesis statements| | (c) How would you categorize the experimental design? (d) The participants are all described as "experts." Is this adequate? What else do you want to know about them? (e) Comment on the description of the tasks. What else do you want to know? (f) If you know some statistics, suggest what further analysis of the results should be done|
Experiments 447 Analyzing the data  , 448 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (a) What were the independent and dependent variables in this study? (b) Write two possible hypothesis statements| | (g) Three other analyses were done on issues that were not mentioned in this description, but that anyone doing this experiment might have looked at. From your knowledge of interaction design, suggest what these analyses might be and say why|
Experiments 447 Analyzing the data  , 448 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (a) What were the independent and dependent variables in this study? (b) Write two possible hypothesis statements| | (h) What are the implications of this study for web design? I Comment (a) The independent variable is menu link structure. The dependent variable is reaction time to complete a search successfully|
Experiments 447 Analyzing the data  , 448 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (a) What were the independent and dependent variables in this study? (b) Write two possible hypothesis statements| | (b) Web search performance is better with broad shallow link structures. There is no difference in search performance with different link structures|
Experiments 447 Analyzing the data  , 448 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (a) What were the independent and dependent variables in this study? (b) Write two possible hypothesis statements|last: | (c) All the participants did all the tasks, so this is a same-participant design|
Experiments 447 Analyzing the data  , 448 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (a) What were the independent and dependent variables in this study? (b) Write two possible hypothesis statements| | (d) "Expert" could refer to a broad range of expertise. The evaluators could have used a screening questionnaire to make sure that all the participants had reached a basic level of expertise and there were no super-experts in the group. However, given that all the participants did all the conditions, differences in expertise had less impact than in other experimental designs|
Experiments 447 Analyzing the data  , 448 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (a) What were the independent and dependent variables in this study? (b) Write two possible hypothesis statements| | (e) Our excerpt contains very little description of the tasks. It would be good to see examples of typical tasks in each task category. How was the similarity and complexity of the tasks tested? (f) A one-way analysis of variance was used to validate the significance of the main finding|
Experiments 447 Analyzing the data  , 448 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (a) What were the independent and dependent variables in this study? (b) Write two possible hypothesis statements|last: | Other tests are also discussed in the full paper|
Experiments 447 Analyzing the data  , 448 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (a) What were the independent and dependent variables in this study? (b) Write two possible hypothesis statements| | (g) Participants could be asked to rate their preferences using a subjective rating questionnaire, which is similar to a user satisfaction questionnaire. The researchers also analyzed the paths the participants took to see if any of the conditions caused less optimal searching. They found that the condition with 32 items on the top-level caused a feeling of "lost in hyperspace," though this was not statistically significant. A less obvious analysis examined memory and scanning ability and found that better memory and scanning ability was associated with faster reaction time in the 16 X 32 hierarchy|
Experiments 447 Analyzing the data  , 448 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (a) What were the independent and dependent variables in this study? (b) Write two possible hypothesis statements| | (h) Implications for web design are to avoid deep narrow link hierarchies and very broad shallow ones. However, as the authors emphasize, this is only one study and more research is needed before any generalizations can be made|
Predictive models In contrast to th ,  | 14.5 Predictive models In contrast to the other forms of evaluation we have discussed, predictive models provide various measures of user performance without actually testing users. |
Predictive models 449 This is espec ,  | 14.5 Predictive models 449 This is especially useful in situations where it is difficult to do any user testing|
Predictive models 449 This is espec ,  | For example, consider companies who want to upgrade their computer support for their employees. How do they decide which of the many possibilities is going to be the most effective and efficient for their needs? One way of helping them make their decision is to provide estimates about how different systems will fare for various kinds of task. Predictive modeling techniques have been designed to enable this|
Predictive models 449 This is espec ,  | The most well-known predictive modeling technique in human-computer interaction is GOMS. This is a generic term used to refer to a family of models, that vary in their granularity as to what aspects of a user's performance they model and make predictions about. These include the time it takes to perform tasks and the most effective strategies to use when performing tasks. The models have been used mainly to predict user performance when comparing different applications and devices. Below we describe two of the most well-known members of the GOMS family: the GOMS model and its "daughter," the keystroke level model. 1 14.5.1 The GOMS model The GOMS model was developed in the early eighties by Stu Card, Tom Moran and Alan Newel1 (Card et al., 1983). As mentioned in Chapter 3, it was an attempt to model the knowledge and cognitive processes involved when users interact with systems. The term GOMS is an acronym which stands for goals, operators, methods and selection rules: Goals refer to a particular state the user wants to achieve (e.g., find a website on interaction design)|
Predictive models 449 This is espec ,  | Operators refer to the cognitive processes and physical actions that need to be performed in order to attain those goals (e.g., decide on which search engine to use, think up and then enter keywords in search engine). The difference between a goal and an operator is that a goal is obtained and an operator is executed|
Predictive models 449 This is espec ,  | Methods are learned procedures for accomplishing the goals. They consist of the exact sequence of steps required (e.g., drag mouse over entry field, type in keywords, press the "go" button)|
Predictive models 449 This is espec ,  | Selection rules are used to determine which method to select when there is more than one available for a given stage of a task. For example, once keywords have been entered into a search engine entry field, many search engines allow users to press the return key on the keyboard or click the "go" button using the mouse to progress the search. A selection rule would determine which of these two methods to use in the particular instance. Below is a detailed example of a GOMS model for deleting a word in a sentence using Microsoft Word. |
Predictive models 449 This is espec , 450 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Goal: delete a word in a sentence Method for accomplishing goal of deleting a word using menu option: Step 1. Recall that word to be deleted has to be highlighted Step 2. Recall that command is "cut" Step 3. Recall that command "cut" is in edit menu Step 4. Accomplish goal of selecting and executing the "cut" command Step 5. Return with goal accomplished Method for accomplishing goal of deleting a word using delete key: Step 1. Recall where to position cursor in relation to word to be deleted Step 2. Recall which key is delete key Step 3. Press "delete" key to delete each letter Step 4. Return with goal accomplished Operators to use in above methods: Click mouse Drag cursor over text Select menu Move cursor to command Press keyboard key Selection Rules to decide which method to use: 1: Delete text using mouse and selecting from menu if large amount of text is to be deleted 2: Delete text using delete key if small number of letters is to be deleted 1 4.5.2 The Keystroke level model The keystroke level model differs from the GOMS model in that it provides actual numerical predictions of user performance. Tasks can be compared in terms of the time it takes to perform them when using different strategies. The main benefit of making these kinds of quantitative predictions is that different features of systems and applications can be easily compared to see which might be the most effective for performing specific kinds of tasks| | 450 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Goal: delete a word in a sentence Method for accomplishing goal of deleting a word using menu option: Step 1. Recall that word to be deleted has to be highlighted Step 2. Recall that command is "cut" Step 3. Recall that command "cut" is in edit menu Step 4. Accomplish goal of selecting and executing the "cut" command Step 5. Return with goal accomplished Method for accomplishing goal of deleting a word using delete key: Step 1. Recall where to position cursor in relation to word to be deleted Step 2. Recall which key is delete key Step 3. Press "delete" key to delete each letter Step 4. Return with goal accomplished Operators to use in above methods: Click mouse Drag cursor over text Select menu Move cursor to command Press keyboard key Selection Rules to decide which method to use: 1: Delete text using mouse and selecting from menu if large amount of text is to be deleted 2: Delete text using delete key if small number of letters is to be deleted 1 4.5.2 The Keystroke level model The keystroke level model differs from the GOMS model in that it provides actual numerical predictions of user performance. Tasks can be compared in terms of the time it takes to perform them when using different strategies. The main benefit of making these kinds of quantitative predictions is that different features of systems and applications can be easily compared to see which might be the most effective for performing specific kinds of tasks|
Predictive models 449 This is espec , 450 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users Goal: delete a word in a sentence Method for accomplishing goal of deleting a word using menu option: Step 1. Recall that word to be deleted has to be highlighted Step 2. Recall that command is "cut" Step 3. Recall that command "cut" is in edit menu Step 4. Accomplish goal of selecting and executing the "cut" command Step 5. Return with goal accomplished Method for accomplishing goal of deleting a word using delete key: Step 1. Recall where to position cursor in relation to word to be deleted Step 2. Recall which key is delete key Step 3. Press "delete" key to delete each letter Step 4. Return with goal accomplished Operators to use in above methods: Click mouse Drag cursor over text Select menu Move cursor to command Press keyboard key Selection Rules to decide which method to use: 1: Delete text using mouse and selecting from menu if large amount of text is to be deleted 2: Delete text using delete key if small number of letters is to be deleted 1 4.5.2 The Keystroke level model The keystroke level model differs from the GOMS model in that it provides actual numerical predictions of user performance. Tasks can be compared in terms of the time it takes to perform them when using different strategies. The main benefit of making these kinds of quantitative predictions is that different features of systems and applications can be easily compared to see which might be the most effective for performing specific kinds of tasks| | When developing the keystroke level model, Card et al. (1983) analyzed the findings of many empirical studies of actual user performance in order to derive a standard set of approximate times for the main kinds of operators used during a task. In so doing, they were able to come up with the average time it takes to carry out common physical actions (e.g., press a key, click on a mouse button) together with other aspects of user-computer interaction (e.g., the time it takes to decide what to do, the system response rate). Below are the core times they proposed for |
Predictive models 451 these (note h ,  | 14.5 Predictive models 451 these (note how much variability there is in the time it takes to press a key for users with different typing skills)|
Predictive models 451 these (note h ,  | Operator name Description Time (see) K Pressing a single key or button 0.35 (average) Skilled typist (55 wpm) 0.22 Average typist (40 wpm) 0.28 User unfamiliar with the keyboard 1.20 Pressing shift or control key 0.08 P Pointing with a mouse or other device to a 1.10 target on a display PI Clicking the mouse or similar device 0.20 H Homing hands on the keyboard or other device 0.40 D Draw a line using a mouse Variable depending on the length of line M Mentally prepare to do something (e.g., make a 1.35 decision) R(t) System response time--counted only if it t causes the user to wait when carrying out their task The predicted time it takes to execute a given task is then calculated by describing the sequence of actions involved and then summing together the approximate times that each one will take: For example, consider how long it would take to insert the word not into the following sentence, using a word processor like Microsoft Word: Running through the streets naked is normal|
Predictive models 451 these (note h , last: | So that it becomes: Running through the streets naked is not normal|
Predictive models 451 these (note h ,  | First we need to decide what the user will do. We are assuming that he will have read the sentences beforehand and so start our calculation at the point where he is about to carry out the requested task. To begin he will need to think what method to select. So we first note a mental event (M operator). Next he will need to move the cursor into the appropriate point of the sentence. So we note an H operator (i.e., reach for the mouse). The remaining sequence of operators are then: position the mouse before the word normal (P), click the mouse button (P,), move hand from mouse over the keyboard ready to type (H), think about which letters to type (M), type the letters n, o and t (3K) and finally press the spacebar (K). |
Predictive models 451 these (note h , 452 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users The times for each of these operators can then be worked out: Mentally prepare (M) Reach for the mouse (H) Position mouse before the word "normal" (P) Click mouse (PI) Move hands to home position on keys (H) Mentally prepare (M) Type "n" (good typist) (K) Type "on (K) Type "t" (K) Type "space" (K) Total predicted time: 1.35 0.40 1.10 0.20 0.40 1.35 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 5.68 seconds When there are many components to add up, it is often easier to put together all the same kinds of operators. For example, the above can be rewritten as: 2(M) + 2(H) + 1(P) + 1(P,) + 4 (K) = 2.70 + 0.88 + 1.10 + 0.2 + 0.80 = 5.68 seconds| | 452 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users The times for each of these operators can then be worked out: Mentally prepare (M) Reach for the mouse (H) Position mouse before the word "normal" (P) Click mouse (PI) Move hands to home position on keys (H) Mentally prepare (M) Type "n" (good typist) (K) Type "on (K) Type "t" (K) Type "space" (K) Total predicted time: 1.35 0.40 1.10 0.20 0.40 1.35 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 5.68 seconds When there are many components to add up, it is often easier to put together all the same kinds of operators. For example, the above can be rewritten as: 2(M) + 2(H) + 1(P) + 1(P,) + 4 (K) = 2.70 + 0.88 + 1.10 + 0.2 + 0.80 = 5.68 seconds|
Predictive models 451 these (note h , 452 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users The times for each of these operators can then be worked out: Mentally prepare (M) Reach for the mouse (H) Position mouse before the word "normal" (P) Click mouse (PI) Move hands to home position on keys (H) Mentally prepare (M) Type "n" (good typist) (K) Type "on (K) Type "t" (K) Type "space" (K) Total predicted time: 1.35 0.40 1.10 0.20 0.40 1.35 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 5.68 seconds When there are many components to add up, it is often easier to put together all the same kinds of operators. For example, the above can be rewritten as: 2(M) + 2(H) + 1(P) + 1(P,) + 4 (K) = 2.70 + 0.88 + 1.10 + 0.2 + 0.80 = 5.68 seconds| | Over 5 seconds seems a long time to insert a word into a sentence, especially for a good typist. Having made our calculation it is useful to look back at the various decisions made. For example, we may want to think why we included a mental operator before typing the letters n, o and t but not one before any of the other physical actions. Was this necessary? Perhaps we don't need to include it|
Predictive models 451 these (note h , 452 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users The times for each of these operators can then be worked out: Mentally prepare (M) Reach for the mouse (H) Position mouse before the word "normal" (P) Click mouse (PI) Move hands to home position on keys (H) Mentally prepare (M) Type "n" (good typist) (K) Type "on (K) Type "t" (K) Type "space" (K) Total predicted time: 1.35 0.40 1.10 0.20 0.40 1.35 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 5.68 seconds When there are many components to add up, it is often easier to put together all the same kinds of operators. For example, the above can be rewritten as: 2(M) + 2(H) + 1(P) + 1(P,) + 4 (K) = 2.70 + 0.88 + 1.10 + 0.2 + 0.80 = 5.68 seconds| | The decision when to include a time for mentally preparing for a physical action is one of the main difficulties with using the keystroke level model. Sometimes it is obvious when to include one (especially if the task requires making a decision) but for other times it can seem quite arbitrary. Another problem is that, just like typing skills vary between individuals, so too do the mental preparation times people spend thinking about what to do. Mental preparation can vary from under 0.5 of a second to well over a minute. Practice at modeling similar kinds of tasks together with comparing them with actual times taken can help overcome these problems. Ensuring that decisions are applied consistently also helps. For example, if comparisons between two prototypes are made, apply the same decisions to each|
Predictive models 451 these (note h , 452 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users The times for each of these operators can then be worked out: Mentally prepare (M) Reach for the mouse (H) Position mouse before the word "normal" (P) Click mouse (PI) Move hands to home position on keys (H) Mentally prepare (M) Type "n" (good typist) (K) Type "on (K) Type "t" (K) Type "space" (K) Total predicted time: 1.35 0.40 1.10 0.20 0.40 1.35 0.22 0.22 0.22 0.22 5.68 seconds When there are many components to add up, it is often easier to put together all the same kinds of operators. For example, the above can be rewritten as: 2(M) + 2(H) + 1(P) + 1(P,) + 4 (K) = 2.70 + 0.88 + 1.10 + 0.2 + 0.80 = 5.68 seconds| | As described in the GOMS model above there are two main ways words can be deleted in a sentence when using a word processor like Word. These are: (a) deleting each letter of the word individually by using the delete key (b) highlighting the word using the mouse and then deleting the highlighted section in one go Which of the two methods do you think is quickest for deleting the word "not" from the following sentence: I do not like using the keystroke level model. |
Predictive models 453 Comment (a) O ,  | 14.5 Predictive models 453 Comment (a) Our analysis for method 1 is: I Mentally prepare M 1.35 Reach for mouse H 0.40 Move cursor one space after the word "not" P 1.10 Click mouse PI 0.20 Home in on delete key H 0.40 Press delete key 4 times to remove word plus a space 4(K) 0.88 (using value for good typist value) Total predicted time = 4.33 seconds (b) Our analysis for method 2 is: I Mentally prepare I Reach for mouse Move cursor to just before the word "not" Click and hold mouse button down (half a PI) Drag the mouse across "not" and one space Release the mouse button (half a PI) Home in on delete key Press delete key (Using value for good typist rate) Total predicted time = 4.77 seconds i The result seems counter-intuitive. Why do you think this is? The reason is that the amount of time required to select the letters to be deleted is longer for the second method than pressing the delete key three times in the first method. If the word had been any longer, for example, "keystroke" then the keystroke analysis would have predicted the opposite. There are also other ways of deleting words, such as double clicking on the word (to select it) and then either pressing the delete key or the combination of ctrl+X keys. What do you think the keystroke level model would ~redict for either of these two methods? 14.5.3 Benefits and limitations of GOMS One of the main attractions of the GOMS approach is that it allows comparative analyses to be performed for different interfaces or computer systems relatively easily. Since its inception, a number of researchers have used the method, reporting on its success for comparing the efficacy of different computer-based systems. The most well-known is Project Ernestine (Gray et al., 1993). This study was carried out to determine if a proposed new workstation, that was ergonomically designed, would improve telephone call operators' performance. Empirical data collected for a range of operator tasks using the existing system was compared with hypothetical data deduced from doing a GOMS analysis for the same set of tasks for the proposed new system|
Predictive models 453 Comment (a) O , last: | Similar to the activity above, the outcome of the study was counter-intuitive|
Predictive models 453 Comment (a) O ,  | When comparing the GOMS predictions for the proposed system with the empirical data collected for the existing system, the researchers discovered that several tasks would take longer to accomplish. Moreover, their analysis was able to show why |
Predictive models 453 Comment (a) O , 454 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users this might be the case: certain keystrokes would need to be performed at critical times during a task rather than during slack periods (as was the case with the existing system). Thus, rather than carrying out these keystrokes in parallel when talking with a customer (as they did with the existing system) they would need to do them sequentially-hence the predicted increase in time spent on the overall task. This suggested to the researchers that, overall, the proposed system would actually slow down the operators rather than improve their performance. On the basis of this study, they were able to advise the phone company against purchasing the new workstations, saving them from investing in a potentially inefficient technology| | 454 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users this might be the case: certain keystrokes would need to be performed at critical times during a task rather than during slack periods (as was the case with the existing system). Thus, rather than carrying out these keystrokes in parallel when talking with a customer (as they did with the existing system) they would need to do them sequentially-hence the predicted increase in time spent on the overall task. This suggested to the researchers that, overall, the proposed system would actually slow down the operators rather than improve their performance. On the basis of this study, they were able to advise the phone company against purchasing the new workstations, saving them from investing in a potentially inefficient technology|
Predictive models 453 Comment (a) O , 454 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users this might be the case: certain keystrokes would need to be performed at critical times during a task rather than during slack periods (as was the case with the existing system). Thus, rather than carrying out these keystrokes in parallel when talking with a customer (as they did with the existing system) they would need to do them sequentially-hence the predicted increase in time spent on the overall task. This suggested to the researchers that, overall, the proposed system would actually slow down the operators rather than improve their performance. On the basis of this study, they were able to advise the phone company against purchasing the new workstations, saving them from investing in a potentially inefficient technology| | While this study has shown that GOMS can be useful in helping make decisions about the effectiveness of new products, it is not often used for evaluation purposes|
Predictive models 453 Comment (a) O , 454 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users this might be the case: certain keystrokes would need to be performed at critical times during a task rather than during slack periods (as was the case with the existing system). Thus, rather than carrying out these keystrokes in parallel when talking with a customer (as they did with the existing system) they would need to do them sequentially-hence the predicted increase in time spent on the overall task. This suggested to the researchers that, overall, the proposed system would actually slow down the operators rather than improve their performance. On the basis of this study, they were able to advise the phone company against purchasing the new workstations, saving them from investing in a potentially inefficient technology| | Part of the problem is its highly limited scope: it can only really model computerbased tasks that involve a small set of highly routine data-entry type tasks. Furthermore, it is intended to be used only to predict expert performance, and does not allow for errors to be modeled. This makes it much more difficult (and sometimes impossible) to predict how an average user will carry out their tasks when using a range of systems, especially those that have been designed to be very flexible in the way they can be used. In most situations, it isn't possible to predict how users will perform. Many unpredictable factors come into play including individual differences among users, fatigue, mental workload, learning effects, and social and organizational factors. For example, most people do not carry out their tasks sequentially but will be constantly multi-tasking, dealing with interruptions and talking to others|
Predictive models 453 Comment (a) O , 454 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users this might be the case: certain keystrokes would need to be performed at critical times during a task rather than during slack periods (as was the case with the existing system). Thus, rather than carrying out these keystrokes in parallel when talking with a customer (as they did with the existing system) they would need to do them sequentially-hence the predicted increase in time spent on the overall task. This suggested to the researchers that, overall, the proposed system would actually slow down the operators rather than improve their performance. On the basis of this study, they were able to advise the phone company against purchasing the new workstations, saving them from investing in a potentially inefficient technology| | A dilemma with predictive models, therefore, is that they can only really make predictions about predictable behavior. Given that most people are unpredictable in the way they behave, it makes it difficult to use them as a way of evaluating how systems will be used in real-world contexts. They can, however, provide useful estimates for comparing the efficiency of different methods of completing tasks, particularly if the tasks are short and clearly defined|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred ,  | 14.5.4 Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) predicts the time it takes to reach a target using a pointing device|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred ,  | It was originally used in human factors research to model the relationship between speed and accuracy when moving towards a target on a display. In interaction design it has been used to describe the time it takes to point at a target, based on the size of the object and the distance to the object. Specifically, it is used to model the time it takes to use a mouse and other input devices to click on objects on a screen|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred ,  | One of its main benefits is that it can help designers decide where to locate buttons, what size they should be and how close together they should be on a screen display|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , last: | The law states that: T = k log2(DIS + 0.5), k - 100 msec|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred ,  | where T = time to move the hand to a target D = distance between hand and target S = size of target |
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred ,  | Assignment 455 In a nutshell the bigger the target the easier and quicker it is to reach it. This is why interfaces that have big buttons are easier to use than interfaces that present lots of tiny buttons crammed together. Fitts' law also predicts that the most quickly accessed targets on any computer display are the four corners of the screen. This is because of their "pinning" action, i.e., the sides of the display constrain the user from over-stepping the target. However, as pointed out by Tog on his AskTog website, corners seem strangely to be avoided at all costs by designers|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred ,  | Fitts' Law, therefore, can be useful for evaluating systems where the time to physically locate an object is critical to the task at hand. In particular it can help designers think about where to locate objects on the screen in relation to each other|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred ,  | This is especially useful for mobile devices, where there is limited space for placing icons and buttons on the screen. For example, in a recent study carried out by Nokia, Fitts' Law was used to predict expert text entry rates for several input methods on a 12-key mobile phone keypad. The study helped the designers make decisions about the size of keys, their positioning and the sequences of presses to perform common tasks for the mobile device. Trade-offs between the size of a device, and accuracy of using it were made with the help of calculations from this model|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , last: | Microsoft toolbars provide the user with the option of displaying a label below each tool|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred ,  | Give a reason why labeled tools may be accessed faster. (Assume that the user knows the tool and does not need the label to identify it.) Comment The label becomes part of the target and hence the target gets bigger. As we mentioned earlier bigger targets can be accessed faster|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred ,  | Furthermore, tool icons that don't have labels are likely to be placed closer together so they are more crowded. Spreading the icons further apart creates buffer zones of space around the icons so that if users accidentally go past the target they will be less likely to select the wrong icon. When the icons are crowded together the user is at greater risk of accidentally overshooting and selecting the wrong icon. The same is true of menus, where the items are closely bunched together|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred ,  | ~ Assignment This assignment continues the work you did on the web-based ticketing system at the end of Chapters 7,8, and 13. The aim of this assignment is again to evaluate the prototypes produced, but this time using user testing. You will then be able to compare the kind of results you got from the heuristic evaluation with those from the user testing. Even though you will be using different prototypes for each evaluation, you should be able to compare the types of problems that each technique reveals|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred ,  | (a) Based on your knowledge of the requirements for this system, develop a standard task, e.g., booking two seats for a particular performance|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred ,  | (b) Prepare a short informed consent form, and write an introduction that explains why you are testing this prototype|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred ,  | (c) Select three typical users, who can be friends or colleagues, and ask them to do the task using your prototype|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , last: | (d) 'Note the problems that each user encounters. If you can, time their performance|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , last: | (If you happen to have a video camera you could film each participant.) |
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | Predicting user performance using the GOMS model, the keystroke level model, and Fitts' Law was presented. These techniques can be useful for determining whether a proposed interface, system or keypad layout will be optimal|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | Key points User testing is a central component of usability testing which typically also includes observation, user satisfaction questionnaires and interviews|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | Testing is commonly done in controlled laboratory-like conditions, in contrast to field studies that focus on how the product is used in its natural context|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | Experiments aim to answer a question or hypothesis by manipulating certain variables while keeping others constant|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed|last: | The experimenter controls independent variable(s) in order to measure dependent variable(s)|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | There are three types of experimental design: different participants, same participants, and matched pair participants|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | The GOMS model, keystroke-level model and Fitts' law can be used to predict expert, error-free performance for certain kinds of tasks|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | Predictive models require neither users nor experts, but the evaluators must be skilled in applying the models|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | Predictive models are used to evaluate systems with limited, clearly defined functionality such as data entry applications|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | Futfher reading DUMAS, J. S., AND REDISH, J.C. (1999) A Practical Guide to Usability Testing. Exeter, UK: Intellect. Many books have been written about user testing and usability, but this one is particularly useful because it describes the process in detail and provides many examples|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | RUBIN, J. (1994) Handbook of Usability Testing: How to Plan, Design and Conduct Effective Tests. New York: John Wiley & Sons. This book also provides good practical advice about preparing and conducting user tests, analyzing and reporting the results|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed|last: | ROBSON, C. (1994) Experimental Design and Statistics in Psychology|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | Aylesbury, UK. Penguin Psychology. This book provides an introduction to experimental design and basic statistics|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | LARSON, K., AND CZERWINSKI, M. (1998) Web page design: Zmplications of memory, structure and scent for information retrieval. Paper presented at CHI 98, Los Angeles. This paper describes the breadth-versus-depth web study outlined in Box 14.2|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | CARD, S. K., MORAN, T. P., AND NEWELL, A. (1963) The Psychology of Human Computer Interaction. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates. This seminal book describes GOMS and the keystroke level model|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | MACKENZIE, I. S. (1992) Fitts' law as a research and design tool in human-computer interaction. Human-Computer Interaction, 7, 91-139. This early paper by Scott Mackenzie provides a detailed discussion ofhow Fitts' law can be used in HCI. |
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | Interview 457 mance, error rates, and user satisfaction depends on whether you are building a repetitive data-entry system, an air-traffic control system, or a game|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | JP: Experiments are an important part of your undergraduate classes. Why? link that makes the web so easy to use|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | JP: Ben you've been a strong advocate of measuring user performance and user satisfaction. Why is just watching users not enough? BS: Watching users is a great way to begin, but if we are to develop a scientific foundation for HCI that promotes theory and supports prediction, measurement will be important. The purpose of measurement is not statistics but insight|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | JP: OK can you give me an example? BS: Watching users traverse a menu tree may reveal some problems they have, but only when you start to measure the time and number of branches taken can you discover that broader and shallower trees are almost always the winning strategy. This conflict between broader and shallower trees emerged in a conference panel discussion with a leading researcher for a major corporation. She and her colleagues followed up by testing users' speed of performance on searching tasks with two-level and three-level trees|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed|last: | (Editor's note: You can read about this experiment in Box 14.2)|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | JP: But is speed of performance always the important measure? BS: Measuring speed of performance, rate of errors, and user satisfaction separately is important because sometimes users may be satisfied by an elaborate graphical interface even if it slows them down substantially|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | Finding the right balance among perforBS: Most computer science and information systems students have had little exposure to experiments. I want to make sure that my students can form lucid and testable hypotheses that can be experimentally tested with groups of real users. They should understand about choosing a small number of independent variables to modify and dependent variables to measure|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | I believe that students benefit by understanding how to control for biases and perform statistical tests that confirm or refute the hypotheses. My students conduct experimental projects in teams and prepare their reports on the web. For example, one team did a project in which they varied the display size and demonstrated that web surfers found what they needed faster with larger screens. Another group found that bigger mouse pads do not increase speed of performance (www.otal.umd.edulSHORE2000). Even if students never conduct an experiment professionally, the process of designing experiments helps them to become more effective analysts. I also want my students to be able to read scientific papers that report on experiments|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | JP: What "take-away messages" do you want your students to get from taking an HCI class? BS: I want my students to know about rigorous and replicable scientific results that form the foundation for this emerging discipline of human-computer interaction|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | Just as physics provides a scientific foundation for mechanical engineering, HCI provides a rigorous foundation for usability engineering|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed| | JP: How do you distinguish between an experiment and usability testing? BS: The best controlled experiments start with a hypothesis that has practical implications and theoretical results of widespread importance. A controlled experiment has at least two conditions and applies statistical tests such as t-test and analysis of variance (ANOVA) to verify statistically significant differences|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 456 Chapter 14 Testing and modeling users (e) Did the kinds of problems that user testing revealed differ from those obtained from a heuristic evaluation? If so, in what ways? (f) What are the main advantages and disadvantages of each technique? Summary This chapter described user testing, which is the core of usability testing. The various aspects of user testing were discussed, including setting up tests, collecting data, controlling conditions and analyzing findings. Experimental design and how experiments differ from user testing was also discussed|last: | The results confirm or refute the hypothesis |
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 458 Chapter 14 Testing and madeling users and the procedure is carefully described so that others can replicate it. I tell my students that experiments have two parents and three children. The parents are "a practical problem" and "a theoretical foundation" and the three children are "help in resolving the practical problem," "refinements to the theory," and "advice to future experimenters who work on the same problem." By contrast, a usability test studies a small number of users who carry out required tasks. Statistical results are less important. The goal is to refine a product as quickly as possible. The outcome of a usability test is a report to developers that identifies frequent problems and possibly suggests improvements, maybe ranked from high to low priority and from low to high developer effort| | 458 Chapter 14 Testing and madeling users and the procedure is carefully described so that others can replicate it. I tell my students that experiments have two parents and three children. The parents are "a practical problem" and "a theoretical foundation" and the three children are "help in resolving the practical problem," "refinements to the theory," and "advice to future experimenters who work on the same problem." By contrast, a usability test studies a small number of users who carry out required tasks. Statistical results are less important. The goal is to refine a product as quickly as possible. The outcome of a usability test is a report to developers that identifies frequent problems and possibly suggests improvements, maybe ranked from high to low priority and from low to high developer effort|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 458 Chapter 14 Testing and madeling users and the procedure is carefully described so that others can replicate it. I tell my students that experiments have two parents and three children. The parents are "a practical problem" and "a theoretical foundation" and the three children are "help in resolving the practical problem," "refinements to the theory," and "advice to future experimenters who work on the same problem." By contrast, a usability test studies a small number of users who carry out required tasks. Statistical results are less important. The goal is to refine a product as quickly as possible. The outcome of a usability test is a report to developers that identifies frequent problems and possibly suggests improvements, maybe ranked from high to low priority and from low to high developer effort| | JP: What do you see as the important usability issues for the next five years? BS: I see three directions for the next five years. The first is the shift from emphasizing the technology to focusing on user needs. I like to say "the old computing is about what computers can do, the new computing is about what users can do." JP: But hasn't HCI always been about what users can do? BS: Yes, but HCI and usability engineering have been more evaluative than generative. To clarify, I believe that deeper theories about human needs will contribute to innovations in mobility, ubiquity, and community. Information and communication tools will become pervasive and enable higher levels of social interaction. For example, museum visitors to the Louvre, white-water rafters in Colorado, or family travelers to Hawaii's Haleakala volcano will be able to point at a sculpture, rock, or flower and find out about it. They'll be able to see photos at different seasons taken by previous visitors and send their own pictures back to friends and grandparents. One of our projects allows people to accumulate, organize, and retrieve the many photos that they will take and receive|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 458 Chapter 14 Testing and madeling users and the procedure is carefully described so that others can replicate it. I tell my students that experiments have two parents and three children. The parents are "a practical problem" and "a theoretical foundation" and the three children are "help in resolving the practical problem," "refinements to the theory," and "advice to future experimenters who work on the same problem." By contrast, a usability test studies a small number of users who carry out required tasks. Statistical results are less important. The goal is to refine a product as quickly as possible. The outcome of a usability test is a report to developers that identifies frequent problems and possibly suggests improvements, maybe ranked from high to low priority and from low to high developer effort|last: | Users of our PhotoFinder software tool can organize their photos and annotate them by dragging |
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 458 Chapter 14 Testing and madeling users and the procedure is carefully described so that others can replicate it. I tell my students that experiments have two parents and three children. The parents are "a practical problem" and "a theoretical foundation" and the three children are "help in resolving the practical problem," "refinements to the theory," and "advice to future experimenters who work on the same problem." By contrast, a usability test studies a small number of users who carry out required tasks. Statistical results are less important. The goal is to refine a product as quickly as possible. The outcome of a usability test is a report to developers that identifies frequent problems and possibly suggests improvements, maybe ranked from high to low priority and from low to high developer effort| | Interview 459 and dropping name labels. Then they can find photos of people and events to tell stories and reminisce (see figure)|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 458 Chapter 14 Testing and madeling users and the procedure is carefully described so that others can replicate it. I tell my students that experiments have two parents and three children. The parents are "a practical problem" and "a theoretical foundation" and the three children are "help in resolving the practical problem," "refinements to the theory," and "advice to future experimenters who work on the same problem." By contrast, a usability test studies a small number of users who carry out required tasks. Statistical results are less important. The goal is to refine a product as quickly as possible. The outcome of a usability test is a report to developers that identifies frequent problems and possibly suggests improvements, maybe ranked from high to low priority and from low to high developer effort| | HCI researchers who understand human needs are likely to come up with innovations that help physicians to make better diagnoses, enable shoppers to find what they want at fair prices, and allow educators to create more compelling experiences for students|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 458 Chapter 14 Testing and madeling users and the procedure is carefully described so that others can replicate it. I tell my students that experiments have two parents and three children. The parents are "a practical problem" and "a theoretical foundation" and the three children are "help in resolving the practical problem," "refinements to the theory," and "advice to future experimenters who work on the same problem." By contrast, a usability test studies a small number of users who carry out required tasks. Statistical results are less important. The goal is to refine a product as quickly as possible. The outcome of a usability test is a report to developers that identifies frequent problems and possibly suggests improvements, maybe ranked from high to low priority and from low to high developer effort| | JP: What are the other two directions? BS: The second opportunity is to support universal usability, thereby bringing the benefits of information and communications technology to the widest possible set of users. website designers will need to learn how to attract and retain a broad set of users with divergent needs and differing skills. They will have to understand how to accommodate users efficiently with slow and fast network connections, new and old computers, and various software platforms. System designers who invent strategies to accommodate young and old, novice and expert, and users with varying disabilities will earn the appreciation of users and the respect of their colleagues. Evidence is accumulating that designs that facilitate multiple natural-language versions of a website also make it easy to accommodate end-user customization, convert to wireless applications, support disabled users and speed modifications|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 458 Chapter 14 Testing and madeling users and the procedure is carefully described so that others can replicate it. I tell my students that experiments have two parents and three children. The parents are "a practical problem" and "a theoretical foundation" and the three children are "help in resolving the practical problem," "refinements to the theory," and "advice to future experimenters who work on the same problem." By contrast, a usability test studies a small number of users who carry out required tasks. Statistical results are less important. The goal is to refine a product as quickly as possible. The outcome of a usability test is a report to developers that identifies frequent problems and possibly suggests improvements, maybe ranked from high to low priority and from low to high developer effort| | The good news is that satisfying these multiple requirements also produces interfaces that are better for all users. Diversity promotes quality|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 458 Chapter 14 Testing and madeling users and the procedure is carefully described so that others can replicate it. I tell my students that experiments have two parents and three children. The parents are "a practical problem" and "a theoretical foundation" and the three children are "help in resolving the practical problem," "refinements to the theory," and "advice to future experimenters who work on the same problem." By contrast, a usability test studies a small number of users who carry out required tasks. Statistical results are less important. The goal is to refine a product as quickly as possible. The outcome of a usability test is a report to developers that identifies frequent problems and possibly suggests improvements, maybe ranked from high to low priority and from low to high developer effort| | The third direction is the development of tools to let more people be more creative more of the time|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 458 Chapter 14 Testing and madeling users and the procedure is carefully described so that others can replicate it. I tell my students that experiments have two parents and three children. The parents are "a practical problem" and "a theoretical foundation" and the three children are "help in resolving the practical problem," "refinements to the theory," and "advice to future experimenters who work on the same problem." By contrast, a usability test studies a small number of users who carry out required tasks. Statistical results are less important. The goal is to refine a product as quickly as possible. The outcome of a usability test is a report to developers that identifies frequent problems and possibly suggests improvements, maybe ranked from high to low priority and from low to high developer effort| | Word processors, painting tools and music-composition software are a good starting point, but creative people need more powerful tools so that they can explore alternative solutions rapidly. Creativity-support tools will speed search of existing solutions, facilitate consultations with peers and mentors, and record the users' history of activity so that they can review or revise their work|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 458 Chapter 14 Testing and madeling users and the procedure is carefully described so that others can replicate it. I tell my students that experiments have two parents and three children. The parents are "a practical problem" and "a theoretical foundation" and the three children are "help in resolving the practical problem," "refinements to the theory," and "advice to future experimenters who work on the same problem." By contrast, a usability test studies a small number of users who carry out required tasks. Statistical results are less important. The goal is to refine a product as quickly as possible. The outcome of a usability test is a report to developers that identifies frequent problems and possibly suggests improvements, maybe ranked from high to low priority and from low to high developer effort| | But remember that every positive development also has a potential dark side. One of the formidable challenges for HCI students is to think carefully about how to cope with the unexpected and unintended|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 458 Chapter 14 Testing and madeling users and the procedure is carefully described so that others can replicate it. I tell my students that experiments have two parents and three children. The parents are "a practical problem" and "a theoretical foundation" and the three children are "help in resolving the practical problem," "refinements to the theory," and "advice to future experimenters who work on the same problem." By contrast, a usability test studies a small number of users who carry out required tasks. Statistical results are less important. The goal is to refine a product as quickly as possible. The outcome of a usability test is a report to developers that identifies frequent problems and possibly suggests improvements, maybe ranked from high to low priority and from low to high developer effort|last: | Powerful tools can have dangerous consequences. |
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 458 Chapter 14 Testing and madeling users and the procedure is carefully described so that others can replicate it. I tell my students that experiments have two parents and three children. The parents are "a practical problem" and "a theoretical foundation" and the three children are "help in resolving the practical problem," "refinements to the theory," and "advice to future experimenters who work on the same problem." By contrast, a usability test studies a small number of users who carry out required tasks. Statistical results are less important. The goal is to refine a product as quickly as possible. The outcome of a usability test is a report to developers that identifies frequent problems and possibly suggests improvements, maybe ranked from high to low priority and from low to high developer effort| | Design and evaluation in the - real world: communicators and advisory systems 15.1 Introduction 1 5.2 Key issues 15.3 Designing mobile communicators 15.3.1 Background 1 5.3.2 Nokia's approach to developing a communicator 15.3.3 Philips' approach to designing a communicator for children 15.4 Redesigning part of a large interactive phone-based response system 15.4.1 Background 1 5.4.2 The redesign 1 5.1 Introduction Textbooks about design and usability testing often make the processes sound straightforward and able to be followed in a step-by-step manner. However, in the real world bringing together all the different aspects of a design is far from straightforward. It is only when you become involved in an actual design project that the challenges and multitude of difficult decisions to be made become apparent|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 458 Chapter 14 Testing and madeling users and the procedure is carefully described so that others can replicate it. I tell my students that experiments have two parents and three children. The parents are "a practical problem" and "a theoretical foundation" and the three children are "help in resolving the practical problem," "refinements to the theory," and "advice to future experimenters who work on the same problem." By contrast, a usability test studies a small number of users who carry out required tasks. Statistical results are less important. The goal is to refine a product as quickly as possible. The outcome of a usability test is a report to developers that identifies frequent problems and possibly suggests improvements, maybe ranked from high to low priority and from low to high developer effort| | Iterative design often involves carrying out different parts of a project in parallel and under tremendous pressure. The need to deal with different sets of demands and trade-offs (e.g., the need for rigorous testing versus the very limited availability of time and resources) is a major influence on the way a design project is carried out|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 458 Chapter 14 Testing and madeling users and the procedure is carefully described so that others can replicate it. I tell my students that experiments have two parents and three children. The parents are "a practical problem" and "a theoretical foundation" and the three children are "help in resolving the practical problem," "refinements to the theory," and "advice to future experimenters who work on the same problem." By contrast, a usability test studies a small number of users who carry out required tasks. Statistical results are less important. The goal is to refine a product as quickly as possible. The outcome of a usability test is a report to developers that identifies frequent problems and possibly suggests improvements, maybe ranked from high to low priority and from low to high developer effort| | The aim of this final chapter is to convey what interaction design is like in the real world by describing how others have dealt with the challenges of an actual design project. As you will have noticed, we have written primarily about design in Chapters 6-9 and evaluation in Chapters 10-14. This was to enable us to explain the different techniques and processes involved during a design project. It is important to realize that in the real world these two central aspects are closely integrated|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 458 Chapter 14 Testing and madeling users and the procedure is carefully described so that others can replicate it. I tell my students that experiments have two parents and three children. The parents are "a practical problem" and "a theoretical foundation" and the three children are "help in resolving the practical problem," "refinements to the theory," and "advice to future experimenters who work on the same problem." By contrast, a usability test studies a small number of users who carry out required tasks. Statistical results are less important. The goal is to refine a product as quickly as possible. The outcome of a usability test is a report to developers that identifies frequent problems and possibly suggests improvements, maybe ranked from high to low priority and from low to high developer effort|last: | You do not do one without the other. In particular, the main reason for doing an |
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 462 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems evaluation is to make progress on a design. Conversely, whenever you develop a design you need to evaluate it. Whether you are designing a small handheld device or a large air-traffic control system, a design that takes months to produce or one that spans years of effort, the two processes must be carried out together| | 462 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems evaluation is to make progress on a design. Conversely, whenever you develop a design you need to evaluate it. Whether you are designing a small handheld device or a large air-traffic control system, a design that takes months to produce or one that spans years of effort, the two processes must be carried out together|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 462 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems evaluation is to make progress on a design. Conversely, whenever you develop a design you need to evaluate it. Whether you are designing a small handheld device or a large air-traffic control system, a design that takes months to produce or one that spans years of effort, the two processes must be carried out together| | The chapter provides glimpses into the design and evaluation process for quite different types of interactive systems. The first two case studies discuss the design of mobile communicators for different groups of users, showing how the design issues differ for each group. The third case study examines the redesign of a large interactive voice response system. In the original design, the focus was on developing a system where the programmers used themselves as models of the users. Furthermore, the programmers were more concerned with developing elegant programs than with users' needs for easy interaction. As you will see, this caused a mismatch between their design and how users tried to find information. This is a common predicament and interaction designers are often brought in to fix already badly designed systems|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 462 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems evaluation is to make progress on a design. Conversely, whenever you develop a design you need to evaluate it. Whether you are designing a small handheld device or a large air-traffic control system, a design that takes months to produce or one that spans years of effort, the two processes must be carried out together| | The main aims of this chapter are to: Show how design and evaluation are brought together in the development of interactive products|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 462 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems evaluation is to make progress on a design. Conversely, whenever you develop a design you need to evaluate it. Whether you are designing a small handheld device or a large air-traffic control system, a design that takes months to produce or one that spans years of effort, the two processes must be carried out together|last: | Show how different combinations of design and evaluation methods are used in practice|
Fitts' Law Fitts' Law (1954) pred , 462 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems evaluation is to make progress on a design. Conversely, whenever you develop a design you need to evaluate it. Whether you are designing a small handheld device or a large air-traffic control system, a design that takes months to produce or one that spans years of effort, the two processes must be carried out together|last: | Describe the various design trade-offs and decisions made in the real world|
Key issues As we have stressed thro ,  | 15.2 Key issues As we have stressed throughout, user-centered approaches to interaction design involve iterative cycles of design-evaluate-redesign as development progresses from initial ideas through various prototypes to the final product. How many cycles need to take place depends on the constraints of the project (e.g., how many people are working on it, how much time is available, how secure the system has to be). To be good at working through these cycles requires a mix of skills involving multitasking, decision-making, team work and firefighting. Many practical issues and unexpected events also need to be dealt with (e.g., users not turning up at testing sessions, prototypes not working, budgets being cut, time to completion being reduced, designers leaving at crucial stages). A design team, therefore, must be creative, well organized, and knowledgeable about the range of techniques that can be brought into play when needed. Part of the challenge and excitement of interaction design is finding ways to cope with the diverse set of problems confronting a project|
Key issues As we have stressed thro ,  | A multitude of questions, concerns and decisions come up throughout a design project. No two projects are ever the same; each will face a different set of constraints, demands, and crises. Throughout the book we have raised what we consider to be general issues that are important in any project. These include how to involve users and take their needs into account, how to understand a problem space, how to design a conceptual model, and how to go about designing and evaluating interfaces. In the following case studies, we focus on some of the |
Designing mobile communicators 463  ,  | 15.3 Designing mobile communicators 463 more practical problems and dilemmas that can arise when working on an actual project|
Designing mobile communicators 463  ,  | We present the case studies through a set of questions that draw out a number of key issues for each project. For example, mapping a large number of functions onto a much smaller number of buttons is key for mobile devices; understanding a child's world is key when designing for children; evaluating the current system is key when redesigning any large system|
Designing mobile communicators 463  , 1 5.3 Designing mobile communicators The first two case studies are about the design of mobile communicators. They focus on some of the design decisions and trade-offs that need to be made. We describe example design practices at two companies, Nokia and Philips, highlighting the differences in requirements and design methods for what is seemingly a similar device| | 1 5.3 Designing mobile communicators The first two case studies are about the design of mobile communicators. They focus on some of the design decisions and trade-offs that need to be made. We describe example design practices at two companies, Nokia and Philips, highlighting the differences in requirements and design methods for what is seemingly a similar device|
Designing mobile communicators 463  , 1 5.3 Designing mobile communicators The first two case studies are about the design of mobile communicators. They focus on some of the design decisions and trade-offs that need to be made. We describe example design practices at two companies, Nokia and Philips, highlighting the differences in requirements and design methods for what is seemingly a similar device| | Mobile communicators often combine the functionality of a mobile telephone, a PDA, and a desktop computer. They allow the user to send and receive email and faxes, to make and receive telephone calls, and to keep contact details, diary entries, and other notes. They are an example of new devices that try to push technological boundaries while at the same time being accessible to a wide range of users|
Designing mobile communicators 463  , 1 5.3 Designing mobile communicators The first two case studies are about the design of mobile communicators. They focus on some of the design decisions and trade-offs that need to be made. We describe example design practices at two companies, Nokia and Philips, highlighting the differences in requirements and design methods for what is seemingly a similar device| | A key design challenge, therefore, is how to make such everyday devices usable and affordable to a heterogeneous set of users. Related to this set of usability goals is the decision about which design approach to use. As you are aware, there are many different approaches to choose from, ranging from ethnographic to more analytic methods. Here, we examine the different approaches of the two companies|
Designing mobile communicators 463  , 1 5.3 Designing mobile communicators The first two case studies are about the design of mobile communicators. They focus on some of the design decisions and trade-offs that need to be made. We describe example design practices at two companies, Nokia and Philips, highlighting the differences in requirements and design methods for what is seemingly a similar device| | To put you in a "design" frame of mind, we begin by asking you to consider the requirements for this kind of device|
Designing mobile communicators 463  , 1 5.3 Designing mobile communicators The first two case studies are about the design of mobile communicators. They focus on some of the design decisions and trade-offs that need to be made. We describe example design practices at two companies, Nokia and Philips, highlighting the differences in requirements and design methods for what is seemingly a similar device| | In Chapter 7, we introduced a number of different kinds of requirements: functional, data, environmental, user, and usability requirements. Which of these is particularly relevant to the design of a mobile communicator? Comment All these are relevant in the design of mobile communicators, but one that needs particular attention is environmental requirements. Because the device is aimed at users "on the move" in all kinds of places, the environment in which it should work or its "context of use" is verv variable|
Designing mobile communicators 463  , 1 5.3 Designing mobile communicators The first two case studies are about the design of mobile communicators. They focus on some of the design decisions and trade-offs that need to be made. We describe example design practices at two companies, Nokia and Philips, highlighting the differences in requirements and design methods for what is seemingly a similar device| | Core environmental issues include how to make the device small and light enough to be carried around in a pocket or small handbag. This means the device must be made of light materials and should be physically small, and also the software must be designed to work with a small screen and limited memory. The system must |
Designing mobile communicators 463  , 464 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems allow for a whole range of situations: noisy or quiet, well lit or poorly lit, hot or cold, wet or dry, vibrating or still, and so on. These constraints have implications for the use of audio, for the levels of display lighting, and for the physical robustness of the device, among other things| | 464 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems allow for a whole range of situations: noisy or quiet, well lit or poorly lit, hot or cold, wet or dry, vibrating or still, and so on. These constraints have implications for the use of audio, for the levels of display lighting, and for the physical robustness of the device, among other things|
Designing mobile communicators 463  , 464 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems allow for a whole range of situations: noisy or quiet, well lit or poorly lit, hot or cold, wet or dry, vibrating or still, and so on. These constraints have implications for the use of audio, for the levels of display lighting, and for the physical robustness of the device, among other things| | Another consideration in the design of this kind of communication device is what the users are doing when using it. A typical user is likely to be doing something else at the same time as using the communicator. This may be walking around, avoiding obstacles, looking for traffic, etc., or it may be listening for a train announcement or a call from children. So users are trying to combine at least three things: communicating with the device (talking, typing, or whatever), performing the "external" activity (walking, listening, etc.), and operating the device. This creates quite a high cognitive load, so operating the device should occupy as little attention as possible|
Designing mobile communicators 463  , 464 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems allow for a whole range of situations: noisy or quiet, well lit or poorly lit, hot or cold, wet or dry, vibrating or still, and so on. These constraints have implications for the use of audio, for the levels of display lighting, and for the physical robustness of the device, among other things| | Tasks are very likely to be interrupted by external events, so users need to ~ know where in an interaction sequence they are at any time, and be able to restart the sequence after an interruption. For a mobile communicator designed to access the Internet, this raises an interesting design trade-off: how long should a communicator remain connected to the Internet after activity has apparently ceased? A I balance is needed between disconnecting so as to minimize connection costs, and remaining connected in a stable state to allow the resumption of an interrupted task. The best option may be to let users set their own time-out period, but this adds to the complexity of operation|
Designing mobile communicators 463  , 464 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems allow for a whole range of situations: noisy or quiet, well lit or poorly lit, hot or cold, wet or dry, vibrating or still, and so on. These constraints have implications for the use of audio, for the levels of display lighting, and for the physical robustness of the device, among other things| | Another implication of the fact that users are likely to be doing other things in parallel with operating the device is that the communicator may need to be operated with one hand, or indeed in a hands-free mode. For example, someone who is walking down the street carrying a bag when the phone rings needs to be able to respond without stopping and putting the bag down, i.e., the operation needs to be one-handed|
Designing mobile communicators 463  , 464 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems allow for a whole range of situations: noisy or quiet, well lit or poorly lit, hot or cold, wet or dry, vibrating or still, and so on. These constraints have implications for the use of audio, for the levels of display lighting, and for the physical robustness of the device, among other things| | For mobile devices in particular, tasks tend to be time-critical, ad hoc, triggered by other people or events, relatively brief, low in terms of attention to be applied to the task, and very personal. Because of these characteristics, the flow among tasks must be smooth. It seems that easy transition between contact database, telephone, and calendar is particularly important for mobile devices. The nature of these tasks and the environmental requirements for mobile devices have implications for evaluation, as we discuss in section 15.3.2|
Designing mobile communicators 463  , 464 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems allow for a whole range of situations: noisy or quiet, well lit or poorly lit, hot or cold, wet or dry, vibrating or still, and so on. These constraints have implications for the use of audio, for the levels of display lighting, and for the physical robustness of the device, among other things| | Because this device will be mobile it must be simple to use and not involve much training. It also needs to be robust and reliable, as the user is most likely to be away from any significant technical support|
Nokia's approach to developing a  ,  | 15.3.2 Nokia's approach to developing a communicator So how does Nokia deal with these kinds of requirements? And which design and evaluation methods do they use? Here, we look at an example approach of Nokia's, and some of the key decisions in mobile communicator design. A design example of an existing Nokia communicator is illustrated in Figure 15.1. This communicator weighs 244 g, is 158 X 56 X 27 mm, and has a full-color screen. As well |
Designing mobile communicators 465  , last: | 15.3 Designing mobile communicators 465 Figure 1 5.1 The Nokia 9210 communicator|
Designing mobile communicators 465  ,  | as email and high-speed WAP connections, it also runs a variety of office applications including word processing, spreadsheets, and presentations.' This case study is based on material from Vaananen-Vainio-Mattila and Ruuska (2000)|
Designing mobile communicators 465  ,  | What kind of IiFecycle does Nokia use? Nokia follows a user-centered approach to concept development that includes contextual design techniques. They point out that "one clear strength of the methodology is that it makes ethnographic research manageable in a business environment" (Vaananen-Vainio-Mattila and Ruuska, 2000, p. 197). As discussed in Chapter 9, the "rich" descriptions arising from an ethnographic study are often not in a form that can be readily translated into a design specification. Nokia tries to get around this problem by carrying out ethnographic studies in combination with other methods. This enables them to come up with a set of detailed requirements|
Designing mobile communicators 465  ,  | Figure 15.2 shows a top-level model of Nokia's approach. It has four main steps: 1. The cycle begins with data gathering. The data is collected through market research studies, data from previous projects, and contextual techniques|
Designing mobile communicators 465  , last: | 'Description summarized from information on the Nokia website www.nokia.com, as of February 2001. |
Designing mobile communicators 465  , 466 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Contextual data gathering Analysis designs prototype iterations Concept creation II. Scenario and task building tests evaluatlon Final iteration Figure 1 5.2 The user-centered concept and product development cycle| | 466 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Contextual data gathering Analysis designs prototype iterations Concept creation II. Scenario and task building tests evaluatlon Final iteration Figure 1 5.2 The user-centered concept and product development cycle|
Designing mobile communicators 465  , 2. Scenarios and then task models are built by analyzing the data collected, and initial designs are proposed| | 2. Scenarios and then task models are built by analyzing the data collected, and initial designs are proposed|
Designing mobile communicators 465  , 3. Many iterations of design and evaluation are performed before the final design emerges. During this process, it may be found that more data is required, so further data gathering is conducted. The evaluation involves contextual interviews with paper-based prototypes to get feedback on first designs, and usability testing once the design is sufficiently advanced. Evaluation sessions emphasize the most important user tasks, as determined by the data gathering| | 3. Many iterations of design and evaluation are performed before the final design emerges. During this process, it may be found that more data is required, so further data gathering is conducted. The evaluation involves contextual interviews with paper-based prototypes to get feedback on first designs, and usability testing once the design is sufficiently advanced. Evaluation sessions emphasize the most important user tasks, as determined by the data gathering|
Designing mobile communicators 465  , 3. Many iterations of design and evaluation are performed before the final design emerges. During this process, it may be found that more data is required, so further data gathering is conducted. The evaluation involves contextual interviews with paper-based prototypes to get feedback on first designs, and usability testing once the design is sufficiently advanced. Evaluation sessions emphasize the most important user tasks, as determined by the data gathering|last: | Once the design is advanced enough, high-fidelity simulations of the design are constructed|
Designing mobile communicators 465  , 3. Many iterations of design and evaluation are performed before the final design emerges. During this process, it may be found that more data is required, so further data gathering is conducted. The evaluation involves contextual interviews with paper-based prototypes to get feedback on first designs, and usability testing once the design is sufficiently advanced. Evaluation sessions emphasize the most important user tasks, as determined by the data gathering| | Simulation tests are conducted with end users, and expert reviews are performed. Functional prototypes are tested with end users for feedback on long-term acceptability, efficiency, and utility of the concept|
Designing mobile communicators 465  , 4. During the last iteration phase, the final design is tested with end users and expert usability specialists| | 4. During the last iteration phase, the final design is tested with end users and expert usability specialists|
Designing mobile communicators 465  , 4. During the last iteration phase, the final design is tested with end users and expert usability specialists| | How does this cycle of activities differ from the interaction design model introduced in Figure 6.7? Comment This cycle also has a focus on iteration through prototyping and evaluation, which is the basis of the model in Chapter 6. However, this cycle distinguishes between concept creation and concept evaluation. scenarios and task modeling are used at the concept creation phase but simulation tests are used in the concept evaluation phase|
Designing mobile communicators 465  , 4. During the last iteration phase, the final design is tested with end users and expert usability specialists| | What challenges does this approach raise? Nokia is very conscious of the need for iterative design and evaluation in the development of mobile communicators. They |
Designing mobile communicators 467  ,  | 15.3 Designing mobile communicators 467 also use participatory design to a degree, but they point out that users will not necessarily have the vision of future possibilities that would allow innovative design in the same way as they might if asked to help design a familiar application like a web browser. Nokia is also well aware of the challenges of evaluating an innovative product like a communicator. These include: The difficulty of testing in all possible scenarios|
Designing mobile communicators 467  ,  | The difficulty of testing human communication practices, especially when developing innovative products that will encourage novel behavior|
Designing mobile communicators 467  , last: | The difficulty of testing services that cannot all be known beforehand|
Designing mobile communicators 467  ,  | What happens when the product is new and there are no users to test? At Nokia, quick and effortless access to critical tasks is a key design driver, and usability tests are used to evaluate the flow of tasks that have been found critical for mobile devices|
Designing mobile communicators 467  ,  | In a competitive and innovative market, other evaluation challenges may also arise. For example, consider the original Nokia communicator (the N9000). This was the first of its kind on the market. This had implications for how it could be evaluated because the device could not be shown to people outside the development team for fear of losing the "first-in-the-market" advantage. Thus the first version on the market did not have the benefit of testing with real users. Although extensive paper-based prototyping and simulations were produced, the evaluations were limited to a small group of people|
Designing mobile communicators 467  ,  | What methods does Nokia use? Nokia uses a number of methods in its development cycle, in particular "usage scenarios." Usage scenarios are high-level descriptions of uses of the device, based on data collected from representative stakeholders. They differ from the generic scenarios described in Chapter 7 in that they focus specifically on concept creation and high-level design considerations. An example of a usage scenario developed by Nokia is given in Figure 15.3|
Designing mobile communicators 467  ,  | What do design teams do next once they have created a set of scenarios? ~t Nokia, the design teams use the usage scenarios they have developed to identify critical user tasks and their structure. These task descriptions, which are more detailed than the original descriptions provided in the usage scenarios, are then used to consider lower-level design issues. A sample critical user task is shown in Figure 15.4|
Designing mobile communicators 467  , 1 To create scenarios, appropriate tasks and stakeholders will need to be identified. Who would the stakeholders be, and what techniques might be used to investigate their needs? Comment First, the tasks to be performed and the stakeholders who might be asked about require- ! ments would have to be identified. Stakeholders for a mobile device include users, developers, telephone companies, computer hardware and software vendors, and their shareholders| | 1 To create scenarios, appropriate tasks and stakeholders will need to be identified. Who would the stakeholders be, and what techniques might be used to investigate their needs? Comment First, the tasks to be performed and the stakeholders who might be asked about require- ! ments would have to be identified. Stakeholders for a mobile device include users, developers, telephone companies, computer hardware and software vendors, and their shareholders|
Designing mobile communicators 467  , 1 To create scenarios, appropriate tasks and stakeholders will need to be identified. Who would the stakeholders be, and what techniques might be used to investigate their needs? Comment First, the tasks to be performed and the stakeholders who might be asked about require- ! ments would have to be identified. Stakeholders for a mobile device include users, developers, telephone companies, computer hardware and software vendors, and their shareholders| | At least in theory, a user may be almost any member of the population, but in practice, only I certain sections of the population are likely to be users. Given the wide functionality of the communicator, the most likely users are professionals. I |
Designing mobile communicators 467  , 7 Example of a Usage Scenario David works as a legal consultant in an international corporation. He uses a communicator daily for light note taking and communications as well as for his personal organization| | 7 Example of a Usage Scenario David works as a legal consultant in an international corporation. He uses a communicator daily for light note taking and communications as well as for his personal organization|
Designing mobile communicators 467  , 8 A.M. The working day starts with a multiparty conference call to Japan. He uses the communicator as a speakerphone to be able to type notes in it at the same time. At the end of the meeting, he sends everybody a copy of the notes via email directly from the communicator| | 8 A.M. The working day starts with a multiparty conference call to Japan. He uses the communicator as a speakerphone to be able to type notes in it at the same time. At the end of the meeting, he sends everybody a copy of the notes via email directly from the communicator|
Designing mobile communicators 467  , 1 P.M. At the airport, he downloads all his new email messages to his communicator so that he can start working on them during the flight. On the plane there is always plenty of time to write answers to messages. While downloading, he views the communicator calendar for the day and remembers having promised to send his business card to a potential client. He does this while standing in line for boarding| | 1 P.M. At the airport, he downloads all his new email messages to his communicator so that he can start working on them during the flight. On the plane there is always plenty of time to write answers to messages. While downloading, he views the communicator calendar for the day and remembers having promised to send his business card to a potential client. He does this while standing in line for boarding|
Designing mobile communicators 467  , 1 P.M. At the airport, he downloads all his new email messages to his communicator so that he can start working on them during the flight. On the plane there is always plenty of time to write answers to messages. While downloading, he views the communicator calendar for the day and remembers having promised to send his business card to a potential client. He does this while standing in line for boarding| | At his destination, he switches the communicator phone on, and it automatically starts sending the replies written on the plane. At the same time David can continue reading the rest of the messages. , 2:30 P.M. His secretary back in London sends him a calendar reservation for the following week. David checks his calendar in the communicator and accepts the request. His communicator sends the confirmation automatically to the secretary and marks the appointment in David's calendar|
Designing mobile communicators 467  , 1 P.M. At the airport, he downloads all his new email messages to his communicator so that he can start working on them during the flight. On the plane there is always plenty of time to write answers to messages. While downloading, he views the communicator calendar for the day and remembers having promised to send his business card to a potential client. He does this while standing in line for boarding|last: | Figure 15.3 An example usage scenario|
Designing mobile communicators 467  , 1 P.M. At the airport, he downloads all his new email messages to his communicator so that he can start working on them during the flight. On the plane there is always plenty of time to write answers to messages. While downloading, he views the communicator calendar for the day and remembers having promised to send his business card to a potential client. He does this while standing in line for boarding| | If we assume that the user group is professional, then it is necessary to find out more about the tasks they perform. This could be done using questionnaires, interviews and observation, or focus groups, but there would be some other issues to consider. A professional who is constantly on the move will be difficult to track down. However, interviews and questionnaires can be administered in different settings such as at trade fairs where many professionals are all gathered in one place. This would potentially provide a ready audience, reduce travel expenses, and supply immediate responses|
Designing mobile communicators 467  , 1 P.M. At the airport, he downloads all his new email messages to his communicator so that he can start working on them during the flight. On the plane there is always plenty of time to write answers to messages. While downloading, he views the communicator calendar for the day and remembers having promised to send his business card to a potential client. He does this while standing in line for boarding| | Performing standard observations in an office has its problems, but observing someone on the move, in all the possible locations in which they might use the device, opens up a whole new set of issues. Mobile devices are intended to be used anywhere, so where are observations performed, and how closely can the participants be followed? What usabiliy and user experience goals are important in designing this kind of device? A mobile communicator would be expected to meet the normal usability goals that we have discussed before. But what about user experience goals? Personalization has been identified as significant in user satisfaction; however, a balance |
Designing mobile communicators 469  ,  | 15.3 Designing mobile communicators 469 User Tasks: Classification (1) Done under pressure: very critical (2) Done frequently: critical (3) Medium frequency or medium pressure (4) Not frequent or not done under pressure Sample 1: User tasks in person-to-person voice communication Call-making/in-call (1) Making a call to an emergency number (1) Answering a call (1) Rejecting a call (2) Making a call to frequently called numbers (usually 4-10 of them) (2) Making a call by manually entering each digit (2) Redialing a numberlperson (2) Indication of being busy (3) Making a call to semifrequently called numbers (e.g., a vet, hairdresser) (4) Making a call to occasionally called numbers (i.e., numbers that are often called only once)|
Designing mobile communicators 469  ,  | Phone book memory (114) Saving a name and number [I = very critical during a call] (213) Recalling a name and number and dialing [2 = to a frequently called number] (4) Editing a name and number (4) Erasing a name and number (4) Browsing the contents of a phone book, etc|
Designing mobile communicators 469  ,  | Sample 2: User tasks in text messaging Sending (4) Sending a text message to a contact in the phone book (4) Setting a message center number, etc|
Designing mobile communicators 469  ,  | Receiving (2) Reading and replying to a message (2) Reading and calling back the sender (3) Reading and erasing a message (4) Reading and storing a message with a new name, etc|
Designing mobile communicators 469  , last: | Figure 15.4 Sample user tasks. |
Designing mobile communicators 469  , 470 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems must be struck between allowing flexibility and providing sensible default values so that users don't have to customize settings unless they want to| | 470 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems must be struck between allowing flexibility and providing sensible default values so that users don't have to customize settings unless they want to|
Designing mobile communicators 469  , 470 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems must be struck between allowing flexibility and providing sensible default values so that users don't have to customize settings unless they want to| | Mobile communicators are intended to support users wherever they are, so they must be compatible with the users' lifestyles. Designers must therefore understand the design characteristics that make the communicator attractive to different user groups, and those characteristics that will vary from group to group. If we consider the users as business people, then the important user experience goals are likely to include being helpful, motivating, aesthetically pleasing, and rewarding. If we consider children, then entertainment and fun are likely to be more important, while for teenagers its physical appearance might be more significant|
Designing mobile communicators 469  , 470 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems must be struck between allowing flexibility and providing sensible default values so that users don't have to customize settings unless they want to| | How does Nokia design a communicator's physical aspects? Deciding how many keys to have and how to map them onto a much larger set of functions is a difficult design challenge in any mobile device (see Box 15.1). For example, in the Nokia 7110 mobile phone, the problem of limited keys and limited space was dealt with by providing softkeys with context-sensitive functions that change depending on where the user is in the interaction sequence. This allows the keys to perform different functions depending on the other contextual issues. The softkeys allow the user to do a variety of things, such as make selections, enter, edit, or delete text. The current label for each softkey is displayed at the bottom of the screen, near the relevant key. There is, |
Designing mobile communicators 471  ,  | 15.3 Designing mobile communicators 471 I / 1. Power key. Used for switching the phone on and off. When pressed briefly the user enters the list of profiles (user environments: e.g., Silent to turn off all the phone tones)|
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 2. Navi Roller. Used for navigating the Menu and the Phonebook. Navi Roller allows scrolling up and down as well as selecting, saving, or sending the displayed item by clicking the roller| | 2. Navi Roller. Used for navigating the Menu and the Phonebook. Navi Roller allows scrolling up and down as well as selecting, saving, or sending the displayed item by clicking the roller|
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 3. Two Softkeys. The softkeys are assigned actions that enable the user to manipulate the user interface by making selections and entering, editing, and deleting text. The name of the action changes according to the state of the phone. Descriptive labels are shown in the lower corner of the display respective to the key underneath| | 3. Two Softkeys. The softkeys are assigned actions that enable the user to manipulate the user interface by making selections and entering, editing, and deleting text. The name of the action changes according to the state of the phone. Descriptive labels are shown in the lower corner of the display respective to the key underneath|
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 4. Send key (green receiver). Send key is used for call handling, that is, call creation, and also for bringing up the last-called numbers list| | 4. Send key (green receiver). Send key is used for call handling, that is, call creation, and also for bringing up the last-called numbers list|
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 5. End key (red receiver). End key is for call termination|last: | 5. End key (red receiver). End key is for call termination|
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 5. End key (red receiver). End key is for call termination| | It is also an Exit key that can be used as a panic key since it takes the user from any state of the phone to the idle state without saving changes|
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 5. End key (red receiver). End key is for call termination| | / 6. Numeric keys, with an alphabet according to the ITU-T.161 standard. Used for number and character input. The 1 key also doubles as the Voice Mailbox speed dial key. The #key is used for changing the character case during editing. Nokia 7110 employs a predictive text input method: only one keypress per letter is required, and the entered text string is continually matched with the words in the built-in dictionary|
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 5. End key (red receiver). End key is for call termination| | The lee softkey is basically used as a yes/positive key. It contains options that execute commands and go deeper into the menu structure. In the idle state the left softkey is Menu (the hierarchy of phone functions)|
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 5. End key (red receiver). End key is for call termination| | The right softkey is basically used as a ndnegative key. It contains options that cancel commands, delete text, and go higher in the menu structure. In the idle Figure 15.5 The Nokia state the right softkey is Names (the Phonebook). 7110 mobile phone|
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 5. End key (red receiver). End key is for call termination| | of course, a balance to be struck between having too many softkeys, each with limited functionality, and having only a few keys that can be overloaded with too many functions|
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 5. End key (red receiver). End key is for call termination| | In the end, the Nokia 7110 (Figure 15.5) was designed with just two softkeys that performed multiple functions. (Vaananen-Vainio-Mattila and Ruuska, 2000)|
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 5. End key (red receiver). End key is for call termination| | Textual input becomes a major problem when the number of input keys is restricted by the design. Having only a small number means the users must constantly "peck" at a few keys, typically using their thumbs. Trying to place too many keys in a heavily constrained space means that the user is likely to press the wrong key or two keys at once. How was this pcoblem handled by Nokia? They opted for a small number of keys but in combination with a way of speeding up the typing of words, through having the communicator guess what the user is writing. In particular, the Nokia 7110 introduced the T9 predictive text method that allows speedy input of words based on a dictionary. The phone proposes a likely word once the user has typed a few characters. The user then either selects the proposed word and moves on to the next word, or rejects it and continues to enter the current word|
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 5. End key (red receiver). End key is for call termination| | Communicators have also been designed to include a function button to let the user customize the interface to a limited aegree, for example by allowing a favorite application to be associated with one of the hard keys. |
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 472 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Is it possible to design consistent interfaces, given the physical constraints of a cornrnunicator? A particular problem when developing software for a small display with limited input controls is how to make the interface consistent| | 472 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Is it possible to design consistent interfaces, given the physical constraints of a cornrnunicator? A particular problem when developing software for a small display with limited input controls is how to make the interface consistent|
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 472 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Is it possible to design consistent interfaces, given the physical constraints of a cornrnunicator? A particular problem when developing software for a small display with limited input controls is how to make the interface consistent| | The design dilemma of consistency was addressed in Chapter 1. Consistency is often extolled as a virtue, yet it is sometimes appropriate to be inconsistent. In the design of communicators, the problems of consistency arise again. The device needs to have external consistency, i.e., consistency with users' expectations from their use of other similar tools, and also internal consistency, i.e., consistency with other items of software that the device supports. Sometimes these two design goals are in conflict, and it is appropriate to design a new solution for a particular situation|
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 472 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Is it possible to design consistent interfaces, given the physical constraints of a cornrnunicator? A particular problem when developing software for a small display with limited input controls is how to make the interface consistent|last: | The N9000 web browser was developed for the Nokia N9000 communicator|
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 472 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Is it possible to design consistent interfaces, given the physical constraints of a cornrnunicator? A particular problem when developing software for a small display with limited input controls is how to make the interface consistent| | Many design decisions had to be dealt with, especially the problem of consistency (Ketola et al., 2000). Nokia has an internal style guide that all its products must follow in order to maintain internal consistency. External consistency with PC-based products is difficult to achieve because of physical constraints, and because the operating system for the N9000 is not commonly used with a PC. Other constraints on the design were: 1. The N9000 does not have a pointing device. Pointing is therefore done by selection using the scrolling bars. Scrolling down causes selection to jump from one hyperlink to the next; scrolling up causes it to jump to the previous link|
Designing mobile communicators 471  , 2. In cellular devices, connection rate is limited to 9600 bps, which is slower than the fixed-line rate. Connection can also take up to 30 seconds, considerably slower than the fixed-line equivalent. Web users may be accustomed to slow downloading times, but a long connection time is a new | | 2. In cellular devices, connection rate is limited to 9600 bps, which is slower than the fixed-line rate. Connection can also take up to 30 seconds, considerably slower than the fixed-line equivalent. Web users may be accustomed to slow downloading times, but a long connection time is a new |
Designing mobile communicators 473  ,  | 15.3 Designing mobile communicators 473 I phenomenon. A progress indicator was included in the design so that users would not become frustrated and start pressing other buttons. This leads to a further external consistency issue: should web pages be made to look the same as on faster desktop machines, or should they be designed for faster downloading? Specific design decisions and solutions taken under these constraints were as follows: 1. The default page for a desktop web browser is a home page, but because of the connection time and the speed of downloading, the N9000 browser defaults to a list of favorite pages (called the Hotlist) instead. Thus, the default state is offline. This violates external consistency, but proved to be acceptable to users|
Designing mobile communicators 473  , 2. The functionality of the N9000 browser had to be carefully examined. Because of the Nokia style guide, only three buttons were available for navigating through the function hierarchy, so navigation became a major issue. I To cope with the limited availability of command buttons, the N9000 employs the idea of views, within which only certain functions are possible. For the web browser, three views were provided: Hotlist view, Document view, and Navigation view. Users can select a document in the Hotlist view and enter the Document view. From here they are able to save, read, disconnect from the network, and close the document. However, they cannot navigate through the document. For this they need to go to the Navigation view. This conceptual shift was difficult for users to come to terms with| | 2. The functionality of the N9000 browser had to be carefully examined. Because of the Nokia style guide, only three buttons were available for navigating through the function hierarchy, so navigation became a major issue. I To cope with the limited availability of command buttons, the N9000 employs the idea of views, within which only certain functions are possible. For the web browser, three views were provided: Hotlist view, Document view, and Navigation view. Users can select a document in the Hotlist view and enter the Document view. From here they are able to save, read, disconnect from the network, and close the document. However, they cannot navigate through the document. For this they need to go to the Navigation view. This conceptual shift was difficult for users to come to terms with|
Designing mobile communicators 473  , 3. The style guide dictated that the fourth command button be used to move upwards in the view hierarchy. It is also a part of the style guide that this button should be called "Back." In other applications this may not be a problem, but in the context of a web browser, a button labeled "Back" is interpreted differently. Internal consistency had to be obeyed here, and so the command that moved back to the previous page in the history list was called "Previous." This caused considerable confusion for users| | 3. The style guide dictated that the fourth command button be used to move upwards in the view hierarchy. It is also a part of the style guide that this button should be called "Back." In other applications this may not be a problem, but in the context of a web browser, a button labeled "Back" is interpreted differently. Internal consistency had to be obeyed here, and so the command that moved back to the previous page in the history list was called "Previous." This caused considerable confusion for users|
Designing mobile communicators 473  , 4. Optimizing web pages for display on mobile communicators involves the following three issues: content, because it's important to optimize download times; page layout, because of the small size of the screen; and navigation, because it's important to minimize the number of file downloads| | 4. Optimizing web pages for display on mobile communicators involves the following three issues: content, because it's important to optimize download times; page layout, because of the small size of the screen; and navigation, because it's important to minimize the number of file downloads|
Designing mobile communicators 473  , 4. Optimizing web pages for display on mobile communicators involves the following three issues: content, because it's important to optimize download times; page layout, because of the small size of the screen; and navigation, because it's important to minimize the number of file downloads| | User trials showed that, in the mobile context, users are more interested in getting the text information quickly than in downloading the graphics|
Designing mobile communicators 473  , 4. Optimizing web pages for display on mobile communicators involves the following three issues: content, because it's important to optimize download times; page layout, because of the small size of the screen; and navigation, because it's important to minimize the number of file downloads|last: | Downloading unwanted pages also proved to be a key aspect of usability|
Designing mobile communicators 473  , 4. Optimizing web pages for display on mobile communicators involves the following three issues: content, because it's important to optimize download times; page layout, because of the small size of the screen; and navigation, because it's important to minimize the number of file downloads| | Good link naming and clear, predictable behavior were important because of the long downloading times; locating the wrong page expends much time and cost|
Designing mobile communicators 473  , 4. Optimizing web pages for display on mobile communicators involves the following three issues: content, because it's important to optimize download times; page layout, because of the small size of the screen; and navigation, because it's important to minimize the number of file downloads| | If you are sitting near a desktop computer, study the interface of the piece of software that is running. If you are not near one, then think of the application you run most regularly on a |
Designing mobile communicators 473  , 4. Optimizing web pages for display on mobile communicators involves the following three issues: content, because it's important to optimize download times; page layout, because of the small size of the screen; and navigation, because it's important to minimize the number of file downloads| | I 474 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems desktop machine. Imagine what this interface would look like if you were to reduce the screen size to a mere 158 mm x 56 mm (the size of the Nokia 9210 communicator). What difficulties can you see? What implications do you think this has for software design, and also for the user who is swapping between desktop systems and mobile systems on a regular basis? Comment If the same screen design is carried over to the mobile device then either everything will have to be miniaturized, so that the tool bars, icons and menus will become unreadable, or left at the same size, so that they will take up too much space on the screen. The interface therefore must be designed differently. This has implications for consistency for users who might be using the same application in a desktop environment and on the mobile device|
Designing mobile communicators 473  , 4. Optimizing web pages for display on mobile communicators involves the following three issues: content, because it's important to optimize download times; page layout, because of the small size of the screen; and navigation, because it's important to minimize the number of file downloads| | What kind of user testing does Nokia use? As mentioned earlier, there were confidentiality problems in testing the first generation of communicators on the intended user population. Hence, user testing could be done only after the product was released on the market. One kind of summative testing Nokia did was to find out what questions people have when first using the communicator. Users were given the device to use for some weeks and were then asked to report on positive and negative features. The results from this study confirmed the developers' con- I cerns about the effects of consistency with other similar applications designed to run on desktop machines. Another study involved sending questionnaires to more critical communicator users whose experience ranged from 0 to 12 months, to find out if their reactions were similar|
Designing mobile communicators 473  , 4. Optimizing web pages for display on mobile communicators involves the following three issues: content, because it's important to optimize download times; page layout, because of the small size of the screen; and navigation, because it's important to minimize the number of file downloads| | As can be seen from this case study, Nokia uses a number of methods to develop their communicators for the general public. Furthermore, many design decisions and problems have to be dealt with, ranging from the lack of real users for testing, to how to let users send text messages with only a few keys and a very confined space|
Philips' approach to designing a  ,  | 15.3.3 Philips' approach to designing a communicator for children We now consider how another company went about designing a mobile communicator aimed at a specific user group, children (mostly girls) aged between 7 and 12|
Philips' approach to designing a  ,  | Developing a tool for this user group is quite different from developing a tool for use by the general public, where there is likely to be a huge range of different users|
Philips' approach to designing a  ,  | An advantage of designing a device for a smaller set of users is that they are likely to have similar needs and preferences, meaning that the device can be customized much more to their requirements. This case study draws on material reported in Oosterholt et al. (1996)|
Philips' approach to designing a  ,  | Which approach did Philips use? The Philips process of development for this particular communicator made extensive use of prototyping techniques and participatory design. Children were involved from the initial concepts stage right through to final product testing. Each time a prototype was produced, it was shown to children for comment and feedback. A central part of the design process involved developing interface metaphors. Again, when ideas for metaphors were |
Designing mobile communicators 475  ,  | 15.3 Designing mobile communicators 475 Figure 15.6 (a) The communicator with pen. (b) Product display showing 'the world'|
Designing mobile communicators 475  ,  | proposed, the designers turned to the girls in a spirit of participatory design in order to elicit their responses|
Designing mobile communicators 475  ,  | What usability and user experience were considered important? In the Nokia communicator example we saw the importance of usability goals focusing on effectiveness and efficiency, especially the need to move smoothly among critical tasks. In contrast, Philips focused more on the user experience goals of being enjoyable, entertaining, and fun. Other goals were that it should encourage creativity and provide personal and magical applications. The girls had expressed a specific desire for these|
Designing mobile communicators 475  ,  | What functionalify did the communicator provide? The communicator was designed to have a touch-sensitive screen, pen input, infrared communications, and audio output (see Figure 15.6(a)). The interface was built on the metaphor of a world in which the users can move around freely, picking things up and starting applications (see Figure 15,6(b)). Available applications include a calendar, alarm clock, photo album, fortune teller, and communicator. The user can also perform tasks such as writing letters, composing tunes, drawing pictures, and sending them to other similar devices (see Figure 15.7)|
Designing mobile communicators 475  ,  | What methods were used? Development of the product was divided into four phases: initiation, concept creation, specification, and finalization. Whereas Nokia adopted techniques from contextual design, Philips used mainly low-fidelity prototyping techniques for this particular project. Different prototypes were used throughout the development and for different purposes|
Designing mobile communicators 475  ,  | During the initiation phase, foam models were used to elicit feedback on the color, shape, size, styles, and robustness of the device, among other things. Using group discussions to encourage the youngsters to express their opinions a lot of feedback was gained from the foam models, even though the models contained no functionality. For example, children liked the idea of protecting the screen when carrying it, so they wanted different bags and cases to be provided for it; privacy was an important aspect, so they did not want it easily accessible by others; the pen should be stored safely within the device rather than underneath it for fear of it |
Designing mobile communicators 475  ,  | I 476 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems @~@w=typo qUzing ycar l ika $gm ecrn t~;tpo .*'""..................|
Designing mobile communicators 475  , last: | Figure 15.7 Some of the built-in applications|
Designing mobile communicators 475  ,  | being lost. One surprising result was that the children did not like the colors. The initial colors were bright (See Figure 15.8 on Color Plate 8), but they wanted dark colors more akin to their parents' hi-fi equipment at home|
Designing mobile communicators 475  ,  | The session with the models also provided input for the first user interface design, which was animated using a computer-based tool. This was used to explore navigation, pen-based dialog, types of application, and visual style|
Designing mobile communicators 475  ,  | During the concept creation phase, dynamic visualizations, which are like the storyboards described in Chapter 8 but are computer-based, were used to capture the initial ideas about interface and functionality (see Figure 15.9)|
Designing mobile communicators 475  ,  | During the specification phase, foam models were again used to decide the size of the screen appropriate for writing on while standing up. As well as the size, different display formats were simulated (see Figure 15.10). These prototypes proved to be effective, again eliciting a lot of useful feedback. For example, left-handed users used the upper left part of the product to lean on while writing and the righthanded children used the lower right portion, yielding the design implication that the product should have hand resting places at these two points|
Designing mobile communicators 475  ,  | Also during specification, ideas for the interface design were evaluated by youngsters at a fair. There were two main contenders for the interface design. |
Designing mobile communicators 477  , last: | 15.3 Designing mobile communicators 477 I Figure 15.9 The first dynamic visualizations|
Designing mobile communicators 477  ,  | One provided direct access to each of the applications in the device, represented as a static matrix of options. This meant that the visual presentation and size of the applications was limited by the size of the screen. The other interface worked by indirect access, through a navigation model based on the idea of a window moving over a linked list of options|
Designing mobile communicators 477  , last: | Prototyping was also used in the finalization phase for market evaluations|
Designing mobile communicators 477  , last: | Figure 15.10 Foam models for investigating display size and screen format. |
Designing mobile communicators 477  , 478 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems I Prototypes are often used to answer specific questions. In this development, what questions I were answered by producing and evaluating the foam models? Comment Foam models were used at two specific points in the development to answer clear questions| | 478 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems I Prototypes are often used to answer specific questions. In this development, what questions I were answered by producing and evaluating the foam models? Comment Foam models were used at two specific points in the development to answer clear questions|
Designing mobile communicators 477  , 478 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems I Prototypes are often used to answer specific questions. In this development, what questions I were answered by producing and evaluating the foam models? Comment Foam models were used at two specific points in the development to answer clear questions| | The first set was used to consider the physical design such as size and color. They also elicited comments about storing the pen, covering the display, and having a carrying bag. The second set was used to design the display size and format. This also had the side effect of finding out useful information about where children would rest their hands on the device|
Designing mobile communicators 477  , 478 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems I Prototypes are often used to answer specific questions. In this development, what questions I were answered by producing and evaluating the foam models? Comment Foam models were used at two specific points in the development to answer clear questions| | How much did the children participate in the design? One of the problems with participatory design is knowing how much to involve the users. Trying to involve children too much can be counterproductive, boring them and sometimes making them feel out of their depth. Asking children to participate too little can end up making them feel as if their views and ideas are not being sufficiently taken into account|
Designing mobile communicators 477  , 478 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems I Prototypes are often used to answer specific questions. In this development, what questions I were answered by producing and evaluating the foam models? Comment Foam models were used at two specific points in the development to answer clear questions| | The Philips design team involved the children in design and evaluation from the very beginning. The first participatory design session was held during the initiation phase at a local international primary school. The session investigated the social and personal lives of 7 to 12 year-olds. Groups of 8 to 10 children were engaged in discussions and were asked to draw sketches of their ideal product|
Designing mobile communicators 477  , 478 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems I Prototypes are often used to answer specific questions. In this development, what questions I were answered by producing and evaluating the foam models? Comment Foam models were used at two specific points in the development to answer clear questions| | They were also asked to write stories about the use of the product, so that designers could get some contextual information about how it might be used|
Designing mobile communicators 477  , 478 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems I Prototypes are often used to answer specific questions. In this development, what questions I were answered by producing and evaluating the foam models? Comment Foam models were used at two specific points in the development to answer clear questions| | From this first session, it was clear that the concept was well received by the children. They particularly liked the communication, the pen-based interface, and its multifunctionality|
Designing mobile communicators 477  , 478 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems I Prototypes are often used to answer specific questions. In this development, what questions I were answered by producing and evaluating the foam models? Comment Foam models were used at two specific points in the development to answer clear questions| | There were clear differences between boys, who wanted a broader range of functionality, and girls, who focused on communication. The ability to personalize was important to both groups. For example, one girl wanted the device to cough when a message arrived so that the teacher wouldn't know she was using it during class|
Designing mobile communicators 477  , 478 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems I Prototypes are often used to answer specific questions. In this development, what questions I were answered by producing and evaluating the foam models? Comment Foam models were used at two specific points in the development to answer clear questions| | The whole design team was present at participatory design sessions. Spending time to get the children's opinions and to enter their world to understand how they perceive things was important for the success of the product|
Designing mobile communicators 477  , 478 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems I Prototypes are often used to answer specific questions. In this development, what questions I were answered by producing and evaluating the foam models? Comment Foam models were used at two specific points in the development to answer clear questions| | One lesson that the designers drew from this exercise echoes a comment by Gillian Crampton Smith in the interview at the end of Chapter 6: users are not designers|
Designing mobile communicators 477  , 478 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems I Prototypes are often used to answer specific questions. In this development, what questions I were answered by producing and evaluating the foam models? Comment Foam models were used at two specific points in the development to answer clear questions| | In this instance, the children were limited in what they could design by what they knew and what they were used to. Another stakeholder group, parents, expected keyboard input, as they believed this to be more sophisticated than pen input, which was seen as old fashioned|
Designing mobile communicators 477  , 478 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems I Prototypes are often used to answer specific questions. In this development, what questions I were answered by producing and evaluating the foam models? Comment Foam models were used at two specific points in the development to answer clear questions| | On the other hand, children are often more imaginative than adults, so involving the children was useful when discussing innovative ideas, or when only partial ideas were available. Working with children like this rather than adults requires a different approach, yet both adults and children need to appreciate each others' strengths and weaknesses. Box 15.3 describes the intergenerational design teams that Druin works with in projects at the University of Maryland. |
Designing mobile communicators 479  , last: | 15.3 Designing mobile communicators 479 |
Designing mobile communicators A81  ,  | 15.3 Designing mobile communicators A81 Suggest ways of helping adults and children feel comfortable together and gain mutual acceptance|
Designing mobile communicators A81  ,  | Cornrnen t Allison Druin asks everyone to dress casually in jeans, sneakers and T-shirts. The group works together at shared tables or on the floor. Snacks are important in creating a relaxed environment, and everyone uses first names. The goal is to create a group in which everyone respects each other's contributions and accepts and welcomes different contributions. Children are used to being controlled by adults and adults are used to being in control, and it takes time to break down these ingrained stereotypes|
Designing mobile communicators A81  ,  | What conceptual models did they design? By the concept creation phase, the importance of four goals for the product and its interface had emerged: 1. to support communication by stimulating social interaction among children I 2. to evoke creativity and fantasy 3. to be "aliven -unexpected fun things should happen, surprising and plea- 1 surable to the user, that give the product more character 4. to enhance intimacy-the product is a personal asset containing personal information Five metaphors were developed by designers based on these values. Each metaphor was represented by a story. Figure 15.14 shows an illustration of one metaphor: the wizard. Specific metaphor workshops were conducted to find out how the girls reacted to the metaphors. They were asked to create a collage to visualize the metaphors, showing what they understood by them. The collages were a combination of drawings, essays, and existing pictures. The metaphor workshop showed that the girls were interested in being able to create, communicate, and organize personal things|
Designing mobile communicators A81  , last: | Figure 1 5.1 4 One of the metaphors: the wizard. |
Designing mobile communicators A81  , 482 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems How did they evaluate the concepfuaI model? During the finalization stage, usability evaluations with children were performed to investigate the user interface itself and also to answer specific questions concerned with ideas for games, and writing performance. In most sessions, users were asked to play with the device for a certain period of time before giving feedback| | 482 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems How did they evaluate the concepfuaI model? During the finalization stage, usability evaluations with children were performed to investigate the user interface itself and also to answer specific questions concerned with ideas for games, and writing performance. In most sessions, users were asked to play with the device for a certain period of time before giving feedback|
Designing mobile communicators A81  , 482 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems How did they evaluate the concepfuaI model? During the finalization stage, usability evaluations with children were performed to investigate the user interface itself and also to answer specific questions concerned with ideas for games, and writing performance. In most sessions, users were asked to play with the device for a certain period of time before giving feedback| | What lessons were learned from this case study? Many lessons were learned from developing an innovative product using a combination of participatory design and user testing. Some practical advice offered by Oosterholt and colleagues that can be generalized to the design of other interactive products is: Specify Your User Requirements And Define Milestones The rationale behind specifying user requirements is not just to develop them, but to make sure that the team agrees on the assumptions and realizes how and when they have been and can be changed|
Designing mobile communicators A81  , 482 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems How did they evaluate the concepfuaI model? During the finalization stage, usability evaluations with children were performed to investigate the user interface itself and also to answer specific questions concerned with ideas for games, and writing performance. In most sessions, users were asked to play with the device for a certain period of time before giving feedback| | A Product Is Not Designed in a Vacuum Start thinking about additional and followup products at an early stage, so one does not have to change suddenly or add extra functionality in a later phase|
Designing mobile communicators A81  , 482 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems How did they evaluate the concepfuaI model? During the finalization stage, usability evaluations with children were performed to investigate the user interface itself and also to answer specific questions concerned with ideas for games, and writing performance. In most sessions, users were asked to play with the device for a certain period of time before giving feedback|last: | Users Are Not Designers Not all answers can be generated by user or market tests|
Designing mobile communicators A81  , 482 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems How did they evaluate the concepfuaI model? During the finalization stage, usability evaluations with children were performed to investigate the user interface itself and also to answer specific questions concerned with ideas for games, and writing performance. In most sessions, users were asked to play with the device for a certain period of time before giving feedback|last: | Users will generally relate any new product concept to existing products|
Designing mobile communicators A81  , 482 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems How did they evaluate the concepfuaI model? During the finalization stage, usability evaluations with children were performed to investigate the user interface itself and also to answer specific questions concerned with ideas for games, and writing performance. In most sessions, users were asked to play with the device for a certain period of time before giving feedback| | Act Quick And Dirty If Necessary Often, the purpose of user testing is not to decide whether one interface concept is more usable than an alternative concept, but to discover issues that are important to the children. Small qualitative sessions of user involvement are therefore often appropriate. Furthermore, such sessions provide an opportunity for designers to "enter" the children's world|
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | 15.4 Redesigning part of a large interactive phone-based response system In this case study, we focus on quite a different kind of system, one being redesigned for a specific application intended to provide the general public with advice about filling out a tax return-and those of you who have to do this know only too well how complex it is. The original product was developed not as a commercial product but as an advisory system to be interacted with via the phone. We report here on the work carried out by usability consultant Bill Killam and his colleagues, who worked with the US Internal Revenue Services (IRS) to evaluate and redesigned the telephone response information system (TRIS)|
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | Although this case study is situated in the US, such phone-based information systems are widespread across the world. Typically, they are very frustrating to use|
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | Have you been annoyed by the long menus of options such systems provide when you are trying to buy a train ticket or when making an appointment for a technician to fix your phone line? What happens is that you work your way through several different menu systems, selecting an option from the first list of, say, seven choices, only to find that now you must choose from another list of five alternatives|
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | Then, having spent several minutes doing this, you discover that you made the wrong choice back in the first menu, so you have to start again. Does this sound familiar? Other problems are that often there are too many options to remember, |
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | 15.4 Redesigning part of a large interactive hone-based response system 483 and that none of the options seems to be the right one for you. In such situations, most users long for human contact, for a real live operator, but of course there usually isn't one|
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | TRIS provided information via such a myriad of menus, so it was not surprising that users reported many of these problems. Consequently a thorough evaluation and redesign was planned. To do this, the usability specialists drew on many techniques to get different perspectives of the problems and to find potential solutions|
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | Their choice of techniques was influenced by a combination of constraints: schedules, budgets, their level of expertise, and not least that they were working on redesigning part of an already existing system. Unlike new product development, the design space for making decisions was extremely limited by existing design decisions and the expectations of a large existing user population|
Background Everyone over age 18 l ,  | 15.4.1 Background Everyone over age 18 living in the US must submit a tax return each year either individually or included in a household. The age varies from country to country but the process is fairly similar in many countries. In the US this amounts to over 100 million tax returns each year. Completing the actual tax return is complex, so the IRS provides information in various forms to help people. One of the most used information services is TRIS, which provides voice-recorded information through an automated system. TRIS also allows simple automated transactions. Over 50 million calls are made to the IRS each year, but of these only 14% are handled by TRIS. This suggested to the designers that something was wrong|
The redesign How do users interac ,  | 15.4.2 The redesign How do users interact with the current version of TRIS? The users of TRIS are the public, who get information by calling a toll-free telephone number. This takes them to the main IRS help desk, which is in fact the TRIS. The interface with TRIS is recorded voice information, so output is auditory. Users navigate through this system by selecting choices from the auditory menu that they enter by typing on the telephone keypad. First, the users have to interact with the Auto Attendant portion of the system-a sort of simulated operator that must figure out what the call is about and direct it to the proper part of the system. This sounds simple but there is a problem. Some paths have many subpaths and the way information is classified under the four main paths is often not intuitive to users. Furthermore, some of the functionality available through TRIS is provided by two other independent systems, so users can become confused about which system they are dealing with and may not even know they are dealing with a different system. Users get very few clues that these other systems exist or how they relate to each other, yet suddenly things may be quite different--even the voice they are listening to may change. Navigating through the system, with its lack of visual feedback and few auditory clues, is difficult. Imagine being in a maze with your eyes blindfolded and your hands tied so you can't feel anything, and where the only information you get |
The redesign How do users interac , 484 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems is auditory. How can you possibly remember all the instructions and construct an accurate mental model in your head to help you? Once in TRIS, users can take various paths that: Provide answers to questions about tax law (provided by one of the two other computer systems accessible through TRIS)| | 484 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems is auditory. How can you possibly remember all the instructions and construct an accurate mental model in your head to help you? Once in TRIS, users can take various paths that: Provide answers to questions about tax law (provided by one of the two other computer systems accessible through TRIS)|
The redesign How do users interac , 484 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems is auditory. How can you possibly remember all the instructions and construct an accurate mental model in your head to help you? Once in TRIS, users can take various paths that: Provide answers to questions about tax law (provided by one of the two other computer systems accessible through TRIS)| | Allow people to order all the forms and other materials they need to complete their tax return (provided by the two other systems accessible through TRIS)|
The redesign How do users interac , 484 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems is auditory. How can you possibly remember all the instructions and construct an accurate mental model in your head to help you? Once in TRIS, users can take various paths that: Provide answers to questions about tax law (provided by one of the two other computer systems accessible through TRIS)| | Perform simple transactions, such as changing a mailing address, ordering a copy of a tax return, or obtaining answers to specific questions about a person's taxation|
The redesign How do users interac , 484 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems is auditory. How can you possibly remember all the instructions and construct an accurate mental model in your head to help you? Once in TRIS, users can take various paths that: Provide answers to questions about tax law (provided by one of the two other computer systems accessible through TRIS)| | Reach a live operator if none of the above options are applicable or the user cannot figure out how to use the system|
The redesign How do users interac , 484 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems is auditory. How can you possibly remember all the instructions and construct an accurate mental model in your head to help you? Once in TRIS, users can take various paths that: Provide answers to questions about tax law (provided by one of the two other computer systems accessible through TRIS)| | Why is developing an accurate mental model of TRIS difficult for users? Comment Much of TRIS is hidden to the users. Their interaction with it is indirect, through listening to responses from the system and pressing various keys (whose meaning is always context dependent)|
The redesign How do users interac , 484 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems is auditory. How can you possibly remember all the instructions and construct an accurate mental model in your head to help you? Once in TRIS, users can take various paths that: Provide answers to questions about tax law (provided by one of the two other computer systems accessible through TRIS)| | There is no visual interface and users have only speech output to support their mental model development. Because speech is transient, unlike visual feedback, users must work out the conceptual model without visual cues. The user interface to this system is a series of menus in a tree structure and, since human short-term memory is limited, the structure of the system must also be limited to only a few branches at each point in the tree|
The redesign How do users interac , 484 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems is auditory. How can you possibly remember all the instructions and construct an accurate mental model in your head to help you? Once in TRIS, users can take various paths that: Provide answers to questions about tax law (provided by one of the two other computer systems accessible through TRIS)| | Another problem is that TRIS accepts input only from the telephone number keypad, so it's not possible to associate unique or meaningful options with user choices|
The redesign How do users interac , 484 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems is auditory. How can you possibly remember all the instructions and construct an accurate mental model in your head to help you? Once in TRIS, users can take various paths that: Provide answers to questions about tax law (provided by one of the two other computer systems accessible through TRIS)| | What are the main problems identified with the existing version of TRIS? Because one of the main problems users have when using TRIS is developing a mental model of the system it is hard for users to find the information they need. In addition, TRIS was not designed to reveal the mapping of the underlying systems and often did things that made sense from a processing point of view but not from the user's. This is probably because the programmers took a data-oriented view of the system rather than a user-oriented one. For example, TRIS used the same software routine to gather both a social security number and an employee identification number for certain interactions. This may be efficient from a code-development standpoint, since only one code module needs to be designed and tested, but from the user's perspective it presented several problems. The system always had to ask the user which type of number was expected, even though only one of these numbers made sense for many questions being asked. Consequently, many users unfamiliar with employee identification numbers were not sure what to answer, those who knew the difference wondered why the system was even asking, and all users had yet another chance to make an entry error. |
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | 15.4 Redesigning part of a large interactive phone-based response system 485 What methods did the usabiliiy experts use to identi& the problems with the current version of TRlS? To begin with the usability specialists did a general review of the literature and industry standards and identified the latest design guidelines and current industry best practices for interactive voice response (IVR) systems. These guidelines formed the basis for a heuristic evaluation of the existing TRIS user interface and helped identify specific areas that needed improvement. They also used the GOMS keystroke-level modeling technique to predict how well the interface supported users' tasks. Menu selection from a hierarchy of options is quite well suited to a GOMS evaluation, although certain modifications were necessary to estimate values for average performance times|
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | What did they do with the findings of the evaluation? Once the analysis of the existing interface and user tasks was complete, the team then followed a set of design guidelines and standards, to develop three alternative interfaces for the Auto Attendant part of TRIS. An expert peer panel then reviewed the three alternatives and jointly selected the one that they considered to have the highest usability. The usability specialists also performed a further GOMS analysis for comparison with the existing system. The analysis predicted that it would only take 216.2 seconds to make a call with the new system, compared with 278.7 seconds with the original system. While this kind of prediction can highlight possible savings, it says little about which aspects of the redesign are more effective and why. The usability specialists, therefore, needed to carry out other kinds of user testing|
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | Why is it that the results from a GOMS analysis do not necessarily predict the best design? Comment The keystroke-level analysis predicts performance time for experts doing a task from beginning to end. Not all of the users of TRIS will be experts, so performance time is not the only predictor of good usability|
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | The usability specialists did three iterations of user testing in which they simulated how the new system would work. When they were confident the new Auto Attendant interface had sufficient usability, they redesigned a subset of the underlying functionality. A new simulation of the entire Auto Attendant portion of TRIS was then developed. It was designed to support two typical tasks that had been identified earlier as problematic, to: find out the status of a tax refund order a transcript of a tax return for a particular year These tasks also provide examples of nearly all of the user-system interactions with TRIS (e.g., caller identification, numeric data entry, database lookup, data playback, verbal instructions, etc.). A separate simulation of the existing system was also developed so that the new and existing designs could be compared. The user interaction was automatically logged to make data collection easier and unobtrusive. |
Redesigning part of a large interac , 486 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems What conflicts can arise when suggesting changes for improvement? When carrying out an evaluation of an existing product, often "jewels in the mud" stick outglaring usability problems with a system that, if changed, could result in significant improvements. However, conflicts can arise when suggesting such changes, especially if they may decrease the efficient running of the system. The usability specialists quickly became aware that the TRIS system was making too many cognitive demands on users. In particular, the system expected users to select from too many menu choices too quickly. They also realized that immediate usability improvements could be gained by just a few minor changes: breaking menu choices into groups of 3-5 items; making the choices easier to understand; and separating general navigation commands (e.g., repeat the menu or return to the top menu) from other choices with pauses. However, to make these changes would require adding additional menus and building in pauses in the software. This conflicts with the way engineers write their code: they are extremely reluctant to purposely add additional levels to a menu structure and resist purposely slowing down a system with pauses| | 486 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems What conflicts can arise when suggesting changes for improvement? When carrying out an evaluation of an existing product, often "jewels in the mud" stick outglaring usability problems with a system that, if changed, could result in significant improvements. However, conflicts can arise when suggesting such changes, especially if they may decrease the efficient running of the system. The usability specialists quickly became aware that the TRIS system was making too many cognitive demands on users. In particular, the system expected users to select from too many menu choices too quickly. They also realized that immediate usability improvements could be gained by just a few minor changes: breaking menu choices into groups of 3-5 items; making the choices easier to understand; and separating general navigation commands (e.g., repeat the menu or return to the top menu) from other choices with pauses. However, to make these changes would require adding additional menus and building in pauses in the software. This conflicts with the way engineers write their code: they are extremely reluctant to purposely add additional levels to a menu structure and resist purposely slowing down a system with pauses|
Redesigning part of a large interac , 486 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems What conflicts can arise when suggesting changes for improvement? When carrying out an evaluation of an existing product, often "jewels in the mud" stick outglaring usability problems with a system that, if changed, could result in significant improvements. However, conflicts can arise when suggesting such changes, especially if they may decrease the efficient running of the system. The usability specialists quickly became aware that the TRIS system was making too many cognitive demands on users. In particular, the system expected users to select from too many menu choices too quickly. They also realized that immediate usability improvements could be gained by just a few minor changes: breaking menu choices into groups of 3-5 items; making the choices easier to understand; and separating general navigation commands (e.g., repeat the menu or return to the top menu) from other choices with pauses. However, to make these changes would require adding additional menus and building in pauses in the software. This conflicts with the way engineers write their code: they are extremely reluctant to purposely add additional levels to a menu structure and resist purposely slowing down a system with pauses| | I The gap between programmers' goals and usability goals is often seen in large systems like I TRIS that have existed for some time. How might such problems be avoided when designing new systems? I Comment It can be hard to get changes made when a system has been in operation for some time, but it is important for interaction designers to be persistent and convince the programmers of the benefits of doing so. Involving users early in design and frequent cycles of 'designtest-redesign' helps to avoid such problems in the design of new systems|
Redesigning part of a large interac , 486 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems What conflicts can arise when suggesting changes for improvement? When carrying out an evaluation of an existing product, often "jewels in the mud" stick outglaring usability problems with a system that, if changed, could result in significant improvements. However, conflicts can arise when suggesting such changes, especially if they may decrease the efficient running of the system. The usability specialists quickly became aware that the TRIS system was making too many cognitive demands on users. In particular, the system expected users to select from too many menu choices too quickly. They also realized that immediate usability improvements could be gained by just a few minor changes: breaking menu choices into groups of 3-5 items; making the choices easier to understand; and separating general navigation commands (e.g., repeat the menu or return to the top menu) from other choices with pauses. However, to make these changes would require adding additional menus and building in pauses in the software. This conflicts with the way engineers write their code: they are extremely reluctant to purposely add additional levels to a menu structure and resist purposely slowing down a system with pauses| | How were the usabilij/ tests devised and carried out? In order to do usability tests, the usability specialists had to identify goals for testing, plan tasks that would satisfy those goals, recruit participants, schedule the tests, collect and analyze data, and report their findings. Their main goals were to: evaluate the navigation system of the redesigned TRIS Auto Attendant compare the usability of the redesign with the original TRIS for sample tasks Twenty-eight participants were recruited from a database of individuals who had expressed interest in participating in a usability test. There was an attempt to recruit an equal number of males and females and people from a mixture of education and income levels. The participants were screened by a telephone interview and were paid for their participation. The tests were conducted in a usability lab that provided access to the two simulated TRIS systems (the original design and the redesign). The lab had all the usual features (e.g., video cameras) and a telephone|
Redesigning part of a large interac , 486 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems What conflicts can arise when suggesting changes for improvement? When carrying out an evaluation of an existing product, often "jewels in the mud" stick outglaring usability problems with a system that, if changed, could result in significant improvements. However, conflicts can arise when suggesting such changes, especially if they may decrease the efficient running of the system. The usability specialists quickly became aware that the TRIS system was making too many cognitive demands on users. In particular, the system expected users to select from too many menu choices too quickly. They also realized that immediate usability improvements could be gained by just a few minor changes: breaking menu choices into groups of 3-5 items; making the choices easier to understand; and separating general navigation commands (e.g., repeat the menu or return to the top menu) from other choices with pauses. However, to make these changes would require adding additional menus and building in pauses in the software. This conflicts with the way engineers write their code: they are extremely reluctant to purposely add additional levels to a menu structure and resist purposely slowing down a system with pauses|last: | Timestamps were included in the videotape and the participants' comments were recorded|
Redesigning part of a large interac , 486 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems What conflicts can arise when suggesting changes for improvement? When carrying out an evaluation of an existing product, often "jewels in the mud" stick outglaring usability problems with a system that, if changed, could result in significant improvements. However, conflicts can arise when suggesting such changes, especially if they may decrease the efficient running of the system. The usability specialists quickly became aware that the TRIS system was making too many cognitive demands on users. In particular, the system expected users to select from too many menu choices too quickly. They also realized that immediate usability improvements could be gained by just a few minor changes: breaking menu choices into groups of 3-5 items; making the choices easier to understand; and separating general navigation commands (e.g., repeat the menu or return to the top menu) from other choices with pauses. However, to make these changes would require adding additional menus and building in pauses in the software. This conflicts with the way engineers write their code: they are extremely reluctant to purposely add additional levels to a menu structure and resist purposely slowing down a system with pauses| | The order of the tasks and the order in which the systems were used was counter-balanced. This was done so that participants7 experience on one system or |
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | 15.4 Redesigning part of a large interactive phone-based response system 487 task would not distort the results. So, half the participants first experienced the original TRIS design and the other half first experienced the redesigned TRIS system|
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | That way, if a user learned something from one or other system the effects would be balanced. Similarly, the usability specialists wanted to avoid ordering effects from all the participants doing the same task first. Half the participants were therefore randomly allocated to do task A first and the other half to do task B|
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | Taking both these ordering effects into account produced a 4 X 4 experimental design with eight participants for each condition|
Redesigning part of a large interac , last: | Compare the description of this testing procedure with that for HutchWorld in Chapter 10|
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | What differences do you notice and how can they be explained? Comment The testing for Hutchworld is more typical. There were fewer participants and only one version of the system was tested at any time. In the TRIS test a larger number of participants were involved and the tests were more like an experiment. TRIS is complex, particularly the mapping between TRIS and the underlying functionality, although the system's purpose is clearly defined. By the time the usability specialists started the tests, they believed that they had fixed the major usability problems because they had responded first to the expert reviewers' feedback and then to the GOMS analysis. They were therefore confident that the new design would be better than the original one, but they had to demonstrate this to the IRS. This style of testing was also possible because there were thousands of potential users and the cost savings over 50 million calls justified the cost of this elaborate testing procedure|
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | How did they ensure that the participants tested were a representative set of users? In order to get demographic information to make sure the participants were representative, a questionnaire was given to all of them. It revealed a broad range of ethnicity, educational accomplishment, and income among the 18 women and 14 men who took part in the tests. Most had submitted tax returns during the last five years and most were experienced with interactive voice response systems. Eight participants indicated strong negative feelings about IVR systems, saying they were frustrating, time-consuming, and user-unfriendly|
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | What data was collected during the user testing? A total of 185 subnavigation steps made up the two tasks for the current TRIS. Participants successfully completed 91 steps on their first attempt (49% of the total). This was compared with a similar number of steps for the redesigned system: 187 subnavigation steps made up the same tasks for the redesigned TRIS. Participants were able to complete 117 of the steps on the first attempt (62% of the total), indicating an improvement of over 10%|
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | The average time to perform tasks was also analyzed. The summary data for the two tasks is shown in Table 15.1. As you can see, performance time on the redesigned system was much better for both tasks|
Redesigning part of a large interac ,  | How was the user's satisfaction with the system assessed? At the end of each task, participants were asked to evaluate how well they thought the system enabled |
Redesigning part of a large interac , 488 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Table 15.1 Average total task completion time by systems in seconds (s) Task Original system (s) Redesigned system (s) A 264.3 186.9 B 348.7 218.1 them to accomplish their tasks by completing a user satisfaction questionnaire| | 488 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Table 15.1 Average total task completion time by systems in seconds (s) Task Original system (s) Redesigned system (s) A 264.3 186.9 B 348.7 218.1 them to accomplish their tasks by completing a user satisfaction questionnaire|
Redesigning part of a large interac , 488 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Table 15.1 Average total task completion time by systems in seconds (s) Task Original system (s) Redesigned system (s) A 264.3 186.9 B 348.7 218.1 them to accomplish their tasks by completing a user satisfaction questionnaire| | The responses again indicated that participants thought the redesign was easier to use and they preferred it. Regardless of the order in which participants used the two systems, the scores on the redesigned system were consistently much better than for the original system. The questionnaire provided statements that the participants had to rate on a 7-point scale. The difference between the two systems was highly significant, averaging over 3 rating-scale points higher on each statement|
Redesigning part of a large interac , 488 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Table 15.1 Average total task completion time by systems in seconds (s) Task Original system (s) Redesigned system (s) A 264.3 186.9 B 348.7 218.1 them to accomplish their tasks by completing a user satisfaction questionnaire| | User satisfaction questionnaires like the ones just described enable usability specialists to get answers to questions they regard as important. How can you make sure you collect opin- ions on all the topics that are most important to users? Comment Asking users' opinions informally after pilot testing the questionnaire helps to make sure that you cover everything, but it is not foolproof. Furthermore, you may not want to increase the length of the questionnaire. Two other approaches that could be used separately are to ask users to think aloud and to use open-ended interviews. However, the think aloud method can distort the performance measures, so that is not such a good idea. Open-ended interviews are better, and this was done by the usability specialists in this case|
Redesigning part of a large interac , 488 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Table 15.1 Average total task completion time by systems in seconds (s) Task Original system (s) Redesigned system (s) A 264.3 186.9 B 348.7 218.1 them to accomplish their tasks by completing a user satisfaction questionnaire| | Participants were also invited to make any additional comments they wanted about the two systems. These were then categorized in terms of how easy the new system was considered to navigate, whether it was less confusing, faster, etc. Specific complaints included that some wording was still unclear and that not being able to return to previous menus easily was annoying. No matter how much usability testing and redesign you do, there is always room for improvement|
Redesigning part of a large interac , 488 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Table 15.1 Average total task completion time by systems in seconds (s) Task Original system (s) Redesigned system (s) A 264.3 186.9 B 348.7 218.1 them to accomplish their tasks by completing a user satisfaction questionnaire| | Would it have been better to redesign the entire system? It would have been far too expensive and time-consuming to redesign and test the whole system. A skill that usability specialists need when dealing with this much complexity is how to limit the scope of what they do and still produce useful results|
Redesigning part of a large interac , 488 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Table 15.1 Average total task completion time by systems in seconds (s) Task Original system (s) Redesigned system (s) A 264.3 186.9 B 348.7 218.1 them to accomplish their tasks by completing a user satisfaction questionnaire| | What other design htures could be considered besides improving efficiency? Given that the system is aimed at a diverse set of users, many whose native language is not English, a system that uses different languages would be useful (the Olympic Messaging System used in the Los Angeles games did this very success- |
Redesigning part of a large interac , 488 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Table 15.1 Average total task completion time by systems in seconds (s) Task Original system (s) Redesigned system (s) A 264.3 186.9 B 348.7 218.1 them to accomplish their tasks by completing a user satisfaction questionnaire| | Further reading 489 fully). A range of voices could also be tested to compare the acceptability of different kinds of voices|
Redesigning part of a large interac , 488 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Table 15.1 Average total task completion time by systems in seconds (s) Task Original system (s) Redesigned system (s) A 264.3 186.9 B 348.7 218.1 them to accomplish their tasks by completing a user satisfaction questionnaire| | This case study has illustrated how to use different techniques in the evaluation and redesign of a system. Expert critiques and GOMS analyses are both useful tools for analyzing current systems and for predicting improvements with a proposed new design. But until the systems are actually tested with users, there is no way of knowing whether the predictions are accurate. What if users can theoretically carry out their tasks faster but in practice the interface is so poor that they cannot use it? In many cases, testing with real users is needed to ensure that the new design really does offer an improvement in usability. In this case study, results from usability testing were able to indicate that not only was the new design faster but users also liked it much better|
Redesigning part of a large interac , 488 Chapter 15 Design and evaluation in the real world: communicators and advisory systems Table 15.1 Average total task completion time by systems in seconds (s) Task Original system (s) Redesigned system (s) A 264.3 186.9 B 348.7 218.1 them to accomplish their tasks by completing a user satisfaction questionnaire| | Summary The three case studies illustrate how different combinations of design and evaluation techniques can be used effectively together to arrive at a design for a new product or redesign of an existing system. Quite different demands are placed on the design team when redesignin
, last: | By interaction design, we mean
,  | designing interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday and working lives.
,  | Put another way, it is about creating user experiences that enhance and augment the way people work, communicate, and interact. More generally, Winograd (1997, p. 160) describes it as "designing spaces for human communication and interaction." Thackara views it as "the why as well as the how of our daily interactions using computers" (2001, p. 50).
,  | A number of terms have been used to emphasize different aspects of what is being designed, including user interface design, software design, user-centered design, product design, web design, experience design, and interactive system design. Interaction design is increasingly being accepted as the umbrella term, covering all of these aspects. Indeed, many practitioners and designers, who ten years ago would have described what they were doing as interface design or interactive system design, now promote what they are doing as interaction design.
,  | The focus of interaction design is very much concerned with practice, i.e. how to design user experiences. It is not wedded to a particular way of doing design, but is more eclectic, promoting the use of a range of methods, techniques, and frameworks. Some interaction designers have since begun to put forward their own perspective, for example, Cooper and
,  | Reiman (2003) present their take on interaction design as ?egoal-directed?f and Lowgren and Stolterman (2004) as ?ethoughtful.?f
,  | How does interaction design differ from other approaches to the design of computer-based systems, such as software engineering? A simple analogy to another profession, concerned with creating buildings, may clarify this difference. In his account of interaction design, Terry Winograd asks how architects and civil engineers differ when faced with the problem of building a house. Architects are concerned with the people and their interactions with each other and with the house being built. For example, is there the right mix of family and private spaces? Are the spaces for cooking and eating in close proximity? Will people live in the space being designed in the way it was intended to be used? In contrast, engineers are interested in issues to do with realizing the project. These include practical concerns like cost, durability, structural aspects, environmental aspects, fire regulations, and construction methods. Just as there is a difference between designing and building a house, so too is there a distinction between designing an interactive product and engineering the software for it.
The Components of Interaction Desi , last: | 1.3.1 The Components of Interaction Design
The Components of Interaction Desi ,  | We view interaction design as fundamental to all disciplines, fields, and approaches that are concerned with researching and designing computer-based systems for people (see Figure 1.4) . Why are there so many and what do they all do? Furthermore, how do the various disciplines, fields, and design approaches differ from one another?
The Components of Interaction Desi ,  | Figure 1.4: Relationship among contributing academic disciplines, design practices, and interdisciplinary fields concerned with interaction design
The Components of Interaction Desi ,  | We have already described the distinction between interaction design and software engineering. The differences between interaction design and the other approaches referred to in the figure is largely down to which methods, philosophies, and lenses they use to study, analyse, and design computers. Another way they vary is in terms of the scope and problems they address. For example, Information Systems is concerned with the application of computing technology in domains like business, health, and education, whereas Computer-Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW) is concerned with the need also to support multiple people working together using computer systems (Greif 1988).
The Components of Interaction Desi , last: | Box 1.1: Is Interaction Design beyond HCI?
The Components of Interaction Desi ,  | We see the main difference between Interaction Design (ID) and Human?Computer Interaction (HCI) as one of scope. ID has cast its net much wider, being concerned with the theory, research, and practice of designing user experiences for all manner of technologies, systems, and products, whereas HCI has traditionally had a narrower focus, being "concerned with the design, evaluation, and implementation of interactive computing systems for human use and with the study of major phenomena surrounding them" (ACM SIGCHI, 1992, p. 6). That is one of the reasons why we chose to call our book Interaction Design: Beyond Human?Computer Interaction, to reflect the wider scope.
The Components of Interaction Desi ,  | What about Human Factors and Ergonomics? We see Ergonomics and Human Factors as having closely overlapping goals with HCI, being concerned with understanding the interactions among humans and other aspects of a system in order to optimize human wellbeing and overall system performance (Human Factors Society, 2005).
Who is Involved in Interaction Des , last: | 1.3.2 Who is Involved in Interaction Design?
Who is Involved in Interaction Des ,  | From Figure 1.4 it can also be seen that many people are involved, ranging from social scientists to film-makers. This is not surprising given that technology has become such a pervasive part of our lives. But it can all seem rather bewildering to the onlooker. How do the assortment of players work together?
Who is Involved in Interaction Des ,  | Designers need to know many different things about users, technologies, and interactions between them in order to create effective user experiences. At the very least, they need to understand how people act and react to events and how they communicate and interact with each other. To be able to create engaging user experiences they also need to understand how emotions work, what is meant by aesthetics, desirability, and the role of narrative in human experience. Developers also need to understand the business side, the technical side, the manufacturing side, and the marketing side. Clearly, it is difficult for one person to be well versed in all of these diverse areas and also know how to apply the different forms of knowledge to the process of interaction design. Most interaction design is done by multidisciplinary teams, where the skill sets of engineers, designers, programmers, psychologists, anthropologists, sociologists, artists, toy makers, and others are drawn upon. It is rarely the case, however, that a design team would have all of these professionals working together. Who to include in a team will depend on a number of factors, including a company's design philosophy, its size, purpose, and product line.
Who is Involved in Interaction Des ,  | One of the benefits of bringing together people with different backgrounds and training is the potential of many more ideas being generated, new methods developed, and more creative and original designs being produced. However, the down side is the costs involved. The more people there are with different backgrounds in a design team, the more difficult it can be to communicate and progress forward the designs being generated. Why? People with different backgrounds have different perspectives and ways of seeing and talking about the world (see Figure 1.5) . What one person values as important others may not even see (Kim, 1990). Similarly, a computer scientist's understanding of the term ?erepresentation?f is often very different from a graphic designer's or a psychologist's.
Who is Involved in Interaction Des ,  | Figure 1.5: Four different team members looking at the same square, but each seeing it quite differently
Who is Involved in Interaction Des ,  | What this means in practice is that confusion, misunderstanding, and communication breakdowns can surface in a team. The various team members may have different ways of talking about design and may use the same terms to mean quite different things. Other problems can arise when a group of people is ?ethrown?f together who have not worked as a team. For example, the Philips Vision of the Future Project found that its multidisciplinary teams?who were responsible for developing ideas and products for the future? experienced a number of difficulties, namely, that project team members did not always have a clear idea of who needed what information, when, and in what form (Lambourne et al., 1997).
Who is Involved in Interaction Des , last: | Activity 1.2
Who is Involved in Interaction Des ,  | Activity 1.2: In practice, the makeup of a given design team depends on the kind of interactive product being built. Who do you think should be involved in developing:
Who is Involved in Interaction Des , 1.	A public kiosk providing information about the exhibits available in a science museum?last:. Who do you think should be involved in developing: | 1.	A public kiosk providing information about the exhibits available in a science museum?
Who is Involved in Interaction Des , 2.	An interactive educational website to accompany a TV series?last:. Who do you think should be involved in developing: | 2.	An interactive educational website to accompany a TV series?
Who is Involved in Interaction Des , 2.	An interactive educational website to accompany a TV series?last:. Who do you think should be involved in developing: | Comment
Who is Involved in Interaction Des , 2.	An interactive educational website to accompany a TV series? | Comment: Each team will need a number of different people with different skill sets. For example, the first interactive product would need:
Who is Involved in Interaction Des , 1.	Graphic and interaction designers, museum curators, educational advisors, software engineers, software designers, usability engineers, ergonomists. | 1.	Graphic and interaction designers, museum curators, educational advisors, software engineers, software designers, usability engineers, ergonomists.
Who is Involved in Interaction Des , 1.	Graphic and interaction designers, museum curators, educational advisors, software engineers, software designers, usability engineers, ergonomists.last:. For example, the first interactive product would need: | The second project would need:
Who is Involved in Interaction Des , 2.	TV producers, graphic and interaction designers, teachers, video experts, software engineers, software designers, usability engineers. | 2.	TV producers, graphic and interaction designers, teachers, video experts, software engineers, software designers, usability engineers.
Who is Involved in Interaction Des , 2.	TV producers, graphic and interaction designers, teachers, video experts, software engineers, software designers, usability engineers. | In addition, as both systems are being developed for use by the general public, representative users, such as school children and parents, should be involved. In practice, design teams often end up being quite large, especially if they are working on a big project to meet a fixed deadline. For example, it is common to find teams of 15 people or more working on a website project for an extensive period of time, like six months. This means that a number of people from each area of expertise are likely to be working as part of the project team.
Interaction Design Consultants , last:. For example, the first interactive product would need: | 1.3.3 Interaction Design Consultants
Interaction Design Consultants ,  | Interaction design is now widespread in product development. In particular, website consultants, global corporations, and the computing industries have all realized its pivotal role in successful interactive products. The presence or absence of good interaction design can make or break a company. To get noticed in the highly competitive field of web products requires standing out. Being able to say that your product is easy, effective, and engaging to use is seen as central to this. Marketing departments are also realizing how branding, the number of hits, customer return rate, and customer satisfaction are greatly affected by the usability of a website.
Interaction Design Consultants ,  | In response to the growing demand for interaction design a number of consultancies have established themselves. These include the NielsenNorman Group, Cooper, Swim and IDEO. Swim was set up in the mid-1990s by Gitta Salomon as a small company to assist clients with the design of interactive products ( see the interview with her at the end of this chapter). She points out how often companies realize the importance of interaction design but don't know how to do it themselves. So they get in touch with companies, like Swim, with their partially developed products and ask them for help. This can come in the form of an expert
Interaction Design Consultants ,  | ?ecrit?f in which a detailed review of the usability and design of the product is given (for more on expert evaluation, see Chapter 15) . More extensively, it can involve helping clients create their products.
Interaction Design Consultants ,  | IDEO is a much larger enterprise, with several branches worldwide and over 25 years of experience in the area. They design products, services, and environments for other companies, pioneering new user experiences (Spreenberg et al., 1995). They have developed thousands of products for numerous clients, each time following their particular brand of interaction design (see Figure 1.6) . Some of their most famous designs include the first mouse used by Apple, the Palm V and mMode, the integrated service platform for AT&T cell phones. They were also involved in the design of the TiVo system.
Interaction Design Consultants ,  | Figure 1.6: An innovative product developed by IDEO: wireless cell phones for Telespree. The phones were designed to be inexpensive, playful, and very simple to use, employing voice recognition for driving the interaction and only one button for turning them on and off
Interaction Design Consultants , last:. For example, the first interactive product would need: | Box 1.2: What's in a name? From interface designers to user experience architects
Interaction Design Consultants ,  | Fifteen years ago, when a company wanted to develop an interface for an interactive product it advertised for interface designers. Such professionals were primarily involved in the design and evaluation of widgets for desktop applications. Now that the potential range of interactive products has greatly diversified, coupled with the growing realization of the importance of getting the interface right, a number of other job descriptions have begun to emerge. These include:
Interaction Design Consultants ,  | Interactive/interaction designers (people involved in the design of all the interactive aspects of a product).
Interaction Design Consultants ,  | Usability engineers (people who focus on evaluating products, using usability methods and principles).
Interaction Design Consultants , last:. These include: | Web designers (people who develop and create the visual design of websites, such as layouts).
Interaction Design Consultants , last:. These include: | UI designers (people experienced in user-centered design methodologies).
Interaction Design Consultants ,  | UI design engineers (people who develop and model the end user experience, using task, workflow analytic methods, and low and high-level prototyping tools).
Interaction Design Consultants ,  | Information architects (people who come up with ideas of how to plan and structure interactive products, especially websites).
Interaction Design Consultants ,  | User experience (UX) designers/ architects/researchers (people who do all the above but who may also carry out ethnographic field studies to research into users' needs and convert them into actionable results).
Interaction Design Consultants ,  | Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction, Se... http://library.books24x7.com/assetviewer.aspx?bookid=4093...
Interaction Design Consultants , last:. These include: | Chapter 1 - What is Interaction Design?
Interaction Design Consultants ,  | Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction, Second Edition by  Helen Sharp, Yvonne Rogers and Jenny Preece
Interaction Design Consultants , last:. These include: | John Wiley & Sons c 2007 Citation Recommend?
The User Experience , last:. These include: | 1.4 The User Experience
The User Experience ,  | A concept that has become central to interaction design is the user experience. By this it is meant how a product behaves and is used by people in the real world. As stressed by Jesse Garrett (2003, p. 10), "every product that is used by someone has a user experience: newspapers, ketchup bottles, reclining armchairs, cardigan sweaters." More specifically, it is about how people feel about a product and their pleasure and satisfaction when using it, looking at it, holding it, and opening or closing it. It includes their overall impression of how good it is to use right down to the sensual effect small details have on them, such as how smoothly a switch rotates or the sound of a click and the touch of a button when pressing it.
The User Experience ,  | It is important to point out that one cannot design a user experience, only design for a user experience. In particular, one cannot design a sensual experience, but only create the design features that can evoke it. For example, the outside case of a cell phone can be designed to be smooth, silky, and fit in the palm of a hand that when held, touched, looked at, and interacted with can provoke a sensual and satisfying user experience. Conversely, if it is designed to be heavy and awkward to hold, it is much more likely to end up providing a poor user experience, that is uncomfortable and unpleasant.
The User Experience , last:. These include: | Activity 1.3: The iPod phenomenon
The User Experience ,  | Apple Computer's first (and subsequent) generation of iPods were a phenomenonal success. How do you think this happened?
The User Experience , last:. These include: | Comment
The User Experience ,  | Comment: Apple realized early on that successful interaction design involves creating interactive products that have a quality user experience. The sleek appearance of the iPod music player, its simplicity of use, its elegance in style, its distinct plain white color, a novel interaction style that many people discovered was a sheer pleasure to learn and use, the catchy naming of its product and content (iTunes, iPod), among many other design features, led to it becoming one of the greatest of its kind and a must-have fashion item for teenagers, students, and others alike. While there were many competing MP3 players on the market at the time, some with more powerful functionality, other with bigger screens, more memory, cheaper, easier to use, etc., the quality of the overall user experience paled in comparison with that provided by the iPod.
The User Experience ,  | Comment: There are many aspects of the user experience that can be considered and ways of taking them into account when designing interactive products. Of central importance is the usability, the functionality, the
The User Experience , 1	of 2 	1 /20/15, 10:06 AM Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction, Se... http://library.books24x7.com/assetviewer.aspx?bookid=4093... | 1	of 2 	1 /20/15, 10:06 AM Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction, Se... http://library.books24x7.com/assetviewer.aspx?bookid=4093...
The User Experience , 1	of 2 	1 /20/15, 10:06 AM Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction, Se... http://library.books24x7.com/assetviewer.aspx?bookid=4093... | aesthetics, the content, the look and feel, and the sensual and emotional appeal. In addition, Jack Carroll (2004)  stresses other wide-reaching aspects including fun, health, social capital (the social resources that develop and are maintained through social networks, shared values, goals, and norms), and cultural identity, e.g. age, ethnicity, race, disability, family status, occupation, education. At a more subjective level, John McCarthy and Peter Wright (2004) discuss the importance of people's expectations and the way they make sense of their experiences when using technology (see Chapter 5 for more on this).
The User Experience , 1	of 2 	1 /20/15, 10:06 AM Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction, Se... http://library.books24x7.com/assetviewer.aspx?bookid=4093... | How realistic is it for interaction designers to take all of these factors (and potentially many others) into account and, moreover, be able to translate and combine them to produce quality user experiences? Put frankly, there is no magic formula to help them. As of yet, there is not a unifying theory or framework that can be readily applied by interaction designers. Many of the aspects mentioned are only beginning to be understood. New conceptual frameworks that try to combine them are just emerging. What is established in the field of interaction design, however, are tried and tested design methods, a lot of prescriptive advice, and many relevant research findings. Here, we begin by examining these by outlining the core
The User Experience , 2	of 2 	1 /20/15, 10:06 AMlast:. These include: | 2	of 2 	1 /20/15, 10:06 AM
The User Experience , 2	of 2 	1 /20/15, 10:06 AMlast:. These include: | Chapter 2 - Understanding and Conceptualizing Interaction Interaction Design: Beyond
The User Experience , 2	of 2 	1 /20/15, 10:06 AMlast:. These include: | Human-Computer Interaction, Second Edition by  Helen Sharp, Yvonne Rogers and Jenny Preece
The User Experience , 2	of 2 	1 /20/15, 10:06 AMlast:. These include: | John Wiley & Sons c 2007 Citation Recommend?
the Design Space , last:. These include: | 2.3	Conceptualizing the Design Space
the Design Space ,  | Having a good understanding of the problem space greatly helps design teams progress to the next phase of the design process, which is to conceptualize the design space. Primarily this involves describing what the system is going to be to the users, through developing a conceptual model?we explain how to do this in the next section. The design space can also be conceptualized in other ways, including exploring the nature of the interaction that underlies user activities (see Section 2.3.4)  and through the lenses of different theories, models, and frameworks (see Section 2.4) . A benefit of conceptualizing the design space using one or more of these is that it can inform and systematically structure a design solution.
Conceptual Models , last:. These include: | 2.3.1 Conceptual Models
Conceptual Models ,  | A conceptual model is a high-level description of how a system is organized and operates. ( Johnson and Henderson, 2002, p.  26)
Conceptual Models ,  | Many people have difficulty understanding what a conceptual model is, and yet it is one of the most fundamental parts of interaction design, as noted by David Liddle (1996), a renowned interaction designer:
Conceptual Models ,  | The most important thing to design is the user's conceptual model. Everything else should be subordinated to making that model clear, obvious, and substantial. That is almost exactly the opposite of how most software is designed. ( Liddle, 1996, p.  17)
Conceptual Models ,  | So what exactly is a conceptual model? How do design teams develop one and how do they know when they have a good one? Here, we begin to address these questions by drawing on Johnson and Henderson's (2002) account of conceptual models.
Conceptual Models ,  | They define a conceptual model as an abstraction that outlines what people can do with a product and what concepts are needed to understand how to interact with it. It is important to stress that it is not a description of the user interface but a structure outlining the concepts and the relationships between them that will form the basis of the product or system. In so doing, it enables "designers to straighten out their thinking before they start laying out their widgets" (p. 28). In a nutshell, a conceptual model provides a working strategy; a framework of general concepts and their interrelations. Johnson and Henderson (2002)  propose that a conceptual model should comprise the following components :
Conceptual Models ,  | The major metaphors and analogies that are used to convey to the user how to understand what a product is for and how to use it for an activity.
Conceptual Models ,  | The concepts that users are exposed to through the product, including the task?domain objects they create and manipulate, their attributes, and the operations that can be performed on them.
Conceptual Models ,  | The relationships between those concepts, e.g. whether one object contains another, the relative importance of actions to others, and whether an object is part of another.
Conceptual Models ,  | The mappings between the concepts and the user experience the product is designed to support or invoke.
Conceptual Models ,  | How the various metaphors, concepts, and their relationships are organized determines how the users will subsequently think of a product and the operations they can carry out on it. To show how each of the components can be operationalized for a specific design problem, we revisit our hypothetical scenario of the design team responsible for upgrading the company's web browser. We outline below an initial description of part of the conceptual model for the upgrade (Note: It would need to include more components for describing all of the functions of a web browser).
Conceptual Models , last:. Johnson and Henderson (2002)  propose that a conceptual model should comprise the following components : | i. 	The major metaphors and analogies
Conceptual Models ,  | The main metaphor is browsing, the idea of following links in a page through exploring what is there. It draws on the analogy of window shopping (Glossary, 2005). Another metaphor is bookmarking. Web pages are ordered as a chronological list of sites visited over time and labeled as bookmarks that are selected by the reader, similar to the way bits of card, postits, etc. are used to mark a place to return to in a physical book. ii. 	The concepts
Conceptual Models , last:. Johnson and Henderson (2002)  propose that a conceptual model should comprise the following components : | These include web pages (URLs), dynamic and static web pages, links, lists, folders of
Conceptual Models ,  | URLs, obsolete URLs, saving a URL, revisiting a URL, organizing saved URLs, updating URLs, sending a URL, listing saved URLs, deleting saved URLs, reorganizing URLs. iii. The relationships between concepts
Conceptual Models ,  | These include one object contains another, e.g. a folder contains a collection of related URLs, the relative importance of actions to others, e.g. the ability to add a URL to a list of saved websites the browser is currently pointing to is more important than the ability to move the position of saved URLs around the list, and an object is a specialization of another, e.g. a dynamic web page is a special kind of web page.
Conceptual Models , last:. Johnson and Henderson (2002)  propose that a conceptual model should comprise the following components : | iv. The mappings
Conceptual Models ,  | iv. The mappings: A saved URL corresponds to a web page on the Internet. When the user clicks on the URL, their web browser points to the web page and it appears on their screen.
Conceptual Models ,  | iv. The mappings: By exploring the relationships between the various components of the conceptual model, the design team can debate the merits of providing different methods and how they support the main concepts, e.g. saving, revisiting, categorizing, reorganizing, and their mapping to the task domain. They can also begin discussing whether a new metaphor may be preferable that combines the activities of browsing and searching. In turn, this can lead the design team to articulate the importance of containership as a relationship. For example, what is the best way to sort and revisit saved objects and how many and what types of containers, e.g. folders, bars, are most fitting for the task domain? The same enumeration of concepts can be repeated for other functions of the web browser?both current and new. In so doing, the design team can begin to systematically work out what will be the most simple, effective, and memorable way of supporting users while browsing the Internet.
Conceptual Models ,  | iv. The mappings: Developing a conceptual model can at first seem daunting, especially for those not trained or versed in thinking at an abstract level. It can be much easier to talk about a design idea in concrete terms, such as deciding upon the look and feel of a proposed system, the layout of menu options and other graphical elements, and where information will appear on a screen. But as stressed throughout this chapter, these types of decisions should not be made until the foundations of the system have been worked out?just as architects and interior designers would not think about which color curtains to have before they have decided upon where the windows will be placed in a plan for a new building.
Conceptual Models ,  | iv. The mappings: The benefits of conceptualizing a design in general terms early on in the design process encourages design teams:
Conceptual Models ,  | iv. The mappings: To orient themselves towards asking specific kinds of questions about how the conceptual model will be understood by the targeted users.
Conceptual Models , last:. Johnson and Henderson (2002)  propose that a conceptual model should comprise the following components : | iv. The mappings: Not to become narrowly focused early on.
Conceptual Models ,  | iv. The mappings: To establish a set of common terms they all understand and agree upon, reducing the chance of misunderstandings and confusion arising later on.
Conceptual Models ,  | iv. The mappings: Once formulated and agreed upon, a conceptual model becomes a shared blueprint. This can be represented as a textual description and/or in a diagrammatic form, depending on the preferred linga franca used by the design team. As you will see later in Chapter 11, the conceptual model is used by the design team as the basis from which to develop more detailed and concrete aspects of the design.
Conceptual Models ,  | iv. The mappings: In the next section we describe two interactive products that have become classics in their time. Both were based on very clear and simple conceptual models. It is important to note that they were developed before Johnson and Henderson's (2002) framework was published, but that there are similarities between the way they have been characterized in the literature. In particular, they both emphasize the use of analogy with the physical world and identify core concepts that made them successful products (Winograd, 1996; Smith et al., 1982). Where they differ is in emphasizing the extra value of taking a physical artifact and making it into an interactive digital entity.
Examples of Best Practice , last:. Johnson and Henderson (2002)  propose that a conceptual model should comprise the following components : | 2.3.2 Examples of Best Practice
Examples of Best Practice , last:. Johnson and Henderson (2002)  propose that a conceptual model should comprise the following components : | The Spreadsheet?VisiCalc (Bricklin and Frankston)
Examples of Best Practice ,  | An example of a good conceptual model that has stood the test of time is that which underlies the ubiquitous spreadsheet, originally conceived by Dan Bricklin and Bob Frankston and implemented as a software tool called VisiCalc (www.bricklin.com) . The main reason why this conceptual model has been so successful is that it was simple, clear, and obvious to the users how to use the application and what it could do for them. As Frankston notes, somewhat modestly, in an email to a colleague: "it is just a tool to allow others to work out their ideas and reduce the tedium of repeating the same calculations."
Examples of Best Practice , last:. Johnson and Henderson (2002)  propose that a conceptual model should comprise the following components : | Bricklin and Frankston understood the kind of tool that would be useful to both professionals,
Examples of Best Practice ,  | e.g. accountants, and lay persons. They also emphasized the need to design it to be intuitive and, importantly, leverage off existing practice. They worked out a set of concepts that were operationalized in terms of the task domain in a way that substantially extended the range of computations accountants could do. These were developed into very effective, usable, and powerful operations.
Examples of Best Practice ,  | The conceptual model was based on an analogy of the paper-based ledger sheet that was used in accounting practice at the time (Winograd, 1996). Bricklin and Frankston also conceptualized problematic aspects of the task domain that could substantially be improved upon through using a computer-based tool. For example, they observed that a core financial activity is forecasting. This requires projecting financial results based on assumptions about a company, such as projected and actual sales, investments, infrastructure, and costs. The amount of profit or loss is calculated for different projections. A company may want to determine how much loss it will incur before it achieves break-even, based on different amounts of investment, for different periods of time. Financial analysts need to see a spread of projections for different time periods. Doing this kind of multiple projecting by hand requires much effort and is subject to human error. Using a calculator can reduce the computational load of doing numerous sums but there is still much key pressing and writing down of partial results to be done?again making the process protracted and prone to errors.
Examples of Best Practice ,  | Bricklin and Frankston exploited the interactivity provided by microcomputers and developed an application that was capable of interactive financial modeling. Key goals of their conceptual model were: (i) to create a spreadsheet that was analogous to a ledger sheet in the way it looked, with columns and rows, that allowed people to capitalize on their familiarity with how to use this kind of representation; (ii) to make the spreadsheet interactive, by allowing the user to input and change data in any of the cells in the columns or rows; and (iii) to have the computer perform a range of different calculations and recalculations in response to user input. For example, the last column could be programmed to display the sum of all the cells in the columns preceding it. With the computer doing all the calculations, together with an easy-to-learn-and-use interface, users were provided with an easy-tounderstand tool, based on a simple conceptual model (see Figure 2.2) . Moreover, it gave them a new way of effortlessly working out any number of forecasts?greatly extending what they could do before with existing technology.
Examples of Best Practice ,  | Figure 2.2: A screenshot of the original VisiCalc interface. At the top left-hand corner is where the user typed in operations to be performed (in this case subtracting row 4 from row 3 to work out the profit). The main area has columns labeled A, B, C, etc. across the top and rows 1, 2, 3, etc. down the side. The cursor highlights a cell which displays the calculated results
Examples of Best Practice ,  | The simplicity of this conceptual model is clear and it is not surprising that it received much critical acclaim. For various business reasons, however, VisiCalc did not become a successful commercial product. But many of the basic concepts and the metaphor that were inherent in its conceptual model became widely adopted by other software companies. Most notable, as acknowledged by Bricklin and Frankston on their website, is Microsoft's Excel 97 spreadsheet which has many similarities to VisiCalc?even 18 years after its inception (see Figure 2.3).
Examples of Best Practice ,  | Figure 2.3: A screenshot of Microsoft's 97 Excel spreadsheet Note the way the columns and rows are organized and the space at the top for typing in operations are the same as they were in VisiCalc
Examples of Best Practice ,  | The Star Interface (Based on Miller and Johnson, 1996 and Smith et al., 1982) Another classic of its time was the 8010 ?eStar?f system, developed by Xerox in 1981, that revolutionized the way interfaces were designed for personal computing. Like VisiCalc, it received great acclaim but was not commercially successful, and lo and behold many aspects of its conceptual model were borrowed and adapted by other companies, such as Apple and Microsoft, that later appeared in their very successful Mac and Windows products.
Examples of Best Practice ,  | Star was designed as an office system, targeted at workers not interested in computing per se. An important consideration was to make the computer as ?einvisible?f to the users as possible and to design applications that were suitable for them. The Star developers spent several person-years at the beginning of the project working out an appropriate conceptual model for such an office system. In the end they selected a conceptual model based on an analogy to a physical office. They wanted office workers to imagine the computer to be like an office environment, by acting on electronic counterparts of physical objects in the real world. Their assumption was that this would simplify and clarify the electronic world, making it seem more familiar, less alien, and easier to learn (see Figure 2.4).
Examples of Best Practice , last:. Johnson and Henderson (2002)  propose that a conceptual model should comprise the following components : | Figure 2.4: ( a) The Xerox Star computer and (b) GUI interface
Examples of Best Practice ,  | The Star was based on a conceptual model that included the familiar knowledge of an office. Paper, folders, filing cabinets, and mailboxes were represented as icons on the screen and were designed to possess some of the properties of their physical counterparts. Dragging a document icon across the desktop screen was seen as equivalent to picking up a piece of paper in the physical world and moving it ( but this of course is a very different action).
Examples of Best Practice ,  | Similarly, dragging an electronic document onto an electronic folder was seen as being analogous to placing a physical document into a physical cabinet. In addition, new concepts that were incorporated as part of the desktop metaphor were operations that could not be performed in the physical world. For example, electronic files could be placed onto an icon of a printer on the desktop, resulting in the computer printing them out.
Examples of Best Practice ,  | Dilemma: Over-specified applications: a question of more choice or more confusion? The best conceptual models are those that appear simple and clear to their users and are taskoriented. However, all too often applications can end up being based on overly complex conceptual models, especially if they are the result of a series of upgrades, where more and more functions and ways of doing something are added to the original conceptual model. Whereas in the first version of the software there may have been one way of doing something, later versions are often designed to allow several ways of performing the same operation. For example, some operating and wordprocessing systems now make it possible for the user to carry out the same activity in a number of different ways, e.g. to delete a file the user can issue a command like CtrlD, speak to the computer by saying "delete file," or drag an icon of the file to the recycle bin. Users have to learn each of the different styles to decide which they prefer. Many users prefer to stick to the methods they have always used and trusted and, not surprisingly, become annoyed when they find a simple way of doing something has been changed, albeit more flexibly, now allowing them to do it in three or more different ways. Is providing multiple ways of carrying out the same operation desirable? What do you think?
Interface Metaphors and Analogies , last:. Johnson and Henderson (2002)  propose that a conceptual model should comprise the following components : | 2.3.3 Interface Metaphors and Analogies
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | An interface metaphor is considered to be a central component of a conceptual model. It provides a structure that is similar in some way to aspects of a familiar entity (or entities) but that also has its own behaviors and properties. Consider the term search engine. It has been designed to invite comparison with a common object?a mechanical engine with several parts working?together with an everyday action?searching by looking through numerous files in many different places to extract relevant information. The functions supported by a search engine also include other features besides those belonging to an engine that searches, such as listing and prioritizing the results of a search. It also does these actions in quite different ways from how a mechanical engine works or how a human being might search a library for books on a given topic. The similarities implied by the use of the term ?esearch engine,?f therefore, are at a general level. They are meant to conjure up the essence of the process of finding relevant information, enabling the user to link these to less familiar aspects of the functionality provided.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies , last:. Johnson and Henderson (2002)  propose that a conceptual model should comprise the following components : | Box 2.2: Why are metaphors so popular?
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | People frequently use metaphors and analogies (here we use the terms interchangeably) as a source of inspiration to understand and explain to others what they are doing or trying to do, in terms that are familiar to them. They are an integral part of human language (Lakoff and Johnson, 1980). Metaphors are commonly used to explain something that is unfamiliar or hard to grasp by way of comparison with something that is familiar and easy to grasp. For example, they are commonly employed in education, where teachers use them to introduce something new to students by comparing the new material with something they already understand. An example is the comparison of human evolution with a game. We are all familiar with the properties of a game: there are rules, each player has a goal to win (or lose), there are heuristics to deal with situations where there are no rules, there is the propensity to cheat when the other players are not looking, and so on. By conjuring up these properties, the analogy helps us begin to understand the more difficult concept of evolution?how it happens, what rules govern it, who cheats, and so on.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | It is not surprising, therefore, to see how widely metaphors and analogies have been applied in interaction design. Both have been used, in overlapping ways, to conceptualize abstract, hard to imagine, and difficult to articulate computer-based concepts and interactions in more concrete and familiar terms and as graphical visualizations at the interface. This use includes:
Interface Metaphors and Analogies , last:. This use includes: | As a way of conceptualizing a particular interaction style, e.g. using the system as a tool.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies , last:. This use includes: | As part of the conceptual model instantiated at the interface, e.g. the desktop metaphor.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies , last:. This use includes: | As a way of describing computers, e.g. the Internet highway.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | As names for describing specific operations, e.g. ?ecut?f and ?epaste?f commands for deleting and copying objects (analogy taken from the media industry).
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | As part of the training material aimed at helping learning, e.g. comparing a wordprocessor with a typewriter.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | In many instances, it is hard not to use metaphorical terms, as they have become so ingrained in the language we use to express ourselves. This is increasingly the case when talking about computers. Just ask yourself or someone else to describe how the Internet works. Then try doing it without using a single metaphor.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Interface metaphors are often composites, i.e. they combine quite different pieces of familiar knowledge with the system functionality. We already mentioned the search engine as one such example. Can you think of any others?
Interface Metaphors and Analogies , last:. This use includes: | Comment
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Comment: Some other examples include: Scrollbar?combines the concept of a scroll with a bar, as in bar chart. Toolbar?combines the idea of a set of tools with a bar.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies , last:. This use includes: | Comment: Web Portal?a gateway to a particular collection of pages of networked information.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies , last:. This use includes: | Comment: Benefits of interface metaphors
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Comment: Interface metaphors have proven to be highly successful, providing users with a familiar orienting device and helping them understand and learn how to use a system. People find it easier to learn and talk about what they are doing at the computer interface in terms familiar to them?whether they are computerphobic or highly experienced programmers.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Comment: Metaphorically-based commands used in Unix, like ?elint?f and ?epipe,?f have very concrete meanings in everyday language that, when used in the context of the Unix operating system, metaphorically represent some aspect of the operations they refer to. Although their meaning may appear obscure, especially to the novice, they make sense when understood in the context of programming. For example, Unix allows the programmer to send the output of one program to another by using the pipe | symbol. Once explained, it is easy to imagine the output from one container going to another via a pipe.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Comment: Suggest two computing metaphors that have become common parlance whose original source of reference is (or always was) obscure?
Interface Metaphors and Analogies , last:. This use includes: | Comment: Comment
Interface Metaphors and Analogies , last:. This use includes: | Comment: Two are:
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Two are:: Java?The programming language Java originally was called Oak, but that name had already been taken. It is not clear how the developers moved from Oak to Java. Java is a name commonly associated with coffee. Other Java-based metaphors that have been spawned include Java beans ( a reusable software component) and the steaming coffee-cup logo.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Two are:: Bluetooth?Bluetooth is used in a computing context to describe the wireless technology that is able to unite technology, communication, and consumer electronics. The name is taken from King Harald Blue Tooth, who was a 10th century legendary Viking king responsible for uniting Scandinavia and thus getting people to talk to each other.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies , last:. This use includes: | Two are:: Opposition to Using Interface Metaphors
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Two are:: A mistake sometimes made by designers is to try to design an interface metaphor to look and behave literally like the physical entity it is being compared with. This misses the point about the benefit of developing interface metaphors. As stressed earlier, they are meant to be used to map familiar to unfamiliar knowledge, enabling users to understand and learn about the new domain. Designing interface metaphors only as literal models of the thing being compared with has understandably led to heavy criticism. One of the most outspoken critics is Ted Nelson (1990), who considers metaphorical interfaces as "using old half-ideas as crutches" (p. 237). Other objections to the use of metaphors in interaction design include:
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Two are:: Breaks the rules. Several commentators have criticized the use of interface metaphors because of the cultural and logical contradictions involved in accommodating the metaphor when instantiated as a GUI. A pet hate is the recycle bin (trashcan) that used to sit on the desktop. Logically and culturally (i.e. in the real world), it should be placed under the desk. If this same rule was followed in the virtual desktop, users would not be able to see the bin because it would be occluded by the desktop surface. A counterargument to this objection is that it does not matter whether rules are contravened. Once people understand why the bin is on the desktop, they readily accept that the real-world rule had to be broken. Moreover, the unexpected juxtaposition of the bin on the desktop can draw to the user's attention the additional functionality that it provides. The trashcan now appears in the toolbar of the Mac operating systems?but the same logic applies?is a trashcan a tool? Moreover, does it matter?
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Two are:: Too constraining. Another argument against interface metaphors is that they are too constraining, restricting the kinds of computational tasks that would be useful at the interface. An example is trying to open a file that is embedded in several hundreds of files in a directory. Having to scan through hundreds of icons on a desktop or scroll through a list of files seems a very inefficient way of doing this. A better way is to allow users to instruct the computer to open the desired file by typing in its name (assuming they can remember the name of the file).
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Two are:: Conflicts with design principles. By trying to design the interface metaphor to fit in with the constraints of the physical world, designers are forced into making bad design solutions that conflict with basic design principles. Ted Nelson used the trashcan as an example of such violation: "a hideous failure of consistency is the garbage can on the Macintosh, which means either ?edestroy this?f or ?eeject it for safekeeping?f" (Nelson, 1990). The trashcan has now been designed to transform into an abstract ?eeject?f icon on the Mac when an icon of an external drive, disk, or memory stick is selected from the desktop and moved towards it, thereby reducing the ambiguity associated with the original metaphor.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Two are:: Not being able to understand the system functionality beyond the metaphor. It has been argued that users may get fixed in their understanding of the system based on the interface metaphor. In so doing, they may find it difficult to see what else can be done with the system beyond the actions suggested by the interface metaphor. Nelson (1990) also argues that the similarity of interface metaphors to any real objects in the world is so tenuous that it hinders more than it helps. We would argue the opposite:
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Two are:: because the link is tenuous and there are only a certain number of similarities, it enables the user to see both the dissimilarities and how the metaphor has been extended.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Two are:: Overly literal translation of existing bad designs. Sometimes designers fall into the trap of trying to create a virtual object to resemble a familiar physical object that is itself badly designed. A well-known example is the virtual calculator, which is designed to look and behave like a physical calculator. The interface of many physical calculators, however, has been poorly designed in the first place, based on poor conceptual models, with excessive use of modes, poor labeling of functions, and difficult-to-manipulate key sequences (Mullet and Sano, 1995). The design of the calculator in Figure 2.5(a) has even gone as far as replicating functions needing shift keys, e.g. deg, oct, and hex, which could have been redesigned as dedicated software buttons. Trying to use a virtual calculator that has been designed to emulate a poorly designed physical calculator is much harder than using the physical device itself. A better approach would have been for the designers to think about how to use the computational power of the computer to support the kinds of tasks people need to do when performing calculations (cf the spreadsheet design). The calculator in Figure 2.5(b) has been designed to do this to some extent, by moving the buttons closer to each other (minimizing the amount of mousing) and providing flexible display modes with one-to-one mappings with different functions.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Two are:: Figure 2.5: Two virtual calculators where (a) has been designed too literally and (b) more appropriately for a computer screen
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Two are:: Limits the designer's imagination in conjuring up new paradigms and models. Designers may fixate on ?etired?f ideas, based on well-known technologies, that they know people are very familiar with. Nelson points out that one of the dangers of always looking backwards is that it prevents the designer from thinking of new functionality to provide. For example, Gentner and Nielsen (1996) discuss how they used a book metaphor for designing the user interface to Sun Microsystems' online documentation. In hindsight they realized how it had blinkered them in organizing the online material, preventing them from
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Two are:: introducing desirable functions such as the ability to reorder chapters according to their relevance scores after being searched.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Two are:: Clearly, there are pitfalls in using interface metaphors in interaction design. Indeed, this approach has led to some badly designed conceptual models, that have resulted in confusion and frustration. However, this does not have to be the case. Provided designers are aware of the dangers and try to develop interface metaphors that effectively combine familiar knowledge with new functionality in a meaningful way, then many of the above problems can be avoided.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies , last:. We would argue the opposite: | Two are:: Activity 2.4
Interface Metaphors and Analogies ,  | Activity 2.4: Examine a web browser you use and describe the metaphors that have been incorporated into its design.
Interface Metaphors and Analogies , last:. We would argue the opposite: | Activity 2.4: Comment
Interaction Types , last:. We would argue the opposite: | 2.3.4 Interaction Types
Interaction Types ,  | Another way of conceptualizing the design space is in terms of the user's interactions with a system or product. This can help designers formulate a conceptual model by determining what kinds of interaction to use, and why, before committing to a particular interface. There are a number of possible interfaces available for designers to implement, including speechbased, GUI, multimedia, tangible, and wearables. Note that we are distinguishing here between interface types, which will be discussed in Chapter 6, and interaction types, which we discuss in this section. While cost and other product constraints will often dictate which of these can be used for a given application, considering the interaction type that will best support a user experience can highlight the trade-offs, dilemmas, and pros and cons of using a particular interface type.
Interaction Types ,  | Consider the following problem description: a company has been asked to design a computer-based system that will encourage autistic children to communicate and express themselves better. What type of interaction would be appropriate to use at the interface for this particular user group? It is known that autistic children find it difficult to express what they are feeling or thinking through talking and are more expressive when using their bodies and limbs. Clearly an interaction style based on talking would not be effective but one that involves the children interacting with a system by moving in a physical and/or digital space would seem a more promising starting point.
Interaction Types ,  | We suggest four fundamental types of interaction someone can have with a product/system. These are not meant to be mutually exclusive, e.g. someone can interact with a system based on different kinds of activities, nor are they meant to be definitive. They are:
Interaction Types , 1.	Instructing?where users issue instructions to a system. This can be done in a number of ways, including: typing in commands, selecting options from menus in a windows environment or on a touch screen, speaking aloud commands, pressing buttons, or using a combination of function keys. | 1.	Instructing?where users issue instructions to a system. This can be done in a number of ways, including: typing in commands, selecting options from menus in a windows environment or on a touch screen, speaking aloud commands, pressing buttons, or using a combination of function keys.
Interaction Types , 2.	Conversing?where users have a dialog with a system. Users can speak via an interface or type in questions to which the system replies via text or speech output. | 2.	Conversing?where users have a dialog with a system. Users can speak via an interface or type in questions to which the system replies via text or speech output.
Interaction Types , 3.	Manipulating?where users interact with objects in a virtual or physical space by manipulating them, e.g. opening, holding, closing, placing. Users can hone in on their familiar knowledge of how to interact with objects. | 3.	Manipulating?where users interact with objects in a virtual or physical space by manipulating them, e.g. opening, holding, closing, placing. Users can hone in on their familiar knowledge of how to interact with objects.
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity.
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity.last:. They are: | Instructing
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Instructing: This type of interaction describes how users carry out their tasks by telling the system what to do. Examples include giving instructions to a system to perform operations such as tell the time, print a file, and remind the user of an appointment. A diverse range of products has been designed based on this model, including VCRs, hi-fi systems, alarm clocks, and computers. The way in which the user issues instructions can vary from pressing buttons to typing in strings of characters. Many activities are readily supported by giving instructions.
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Instructing: Operating systems like Unix and Linux have been designed primarily as command-based systems, where users issue instructions at the prompt as a command or set of commands. In Windows and other GUI-based systems, control keys or the selection of menu options via a mouse are used. Typically, a wide range of functions are provided from which users have to select when they want to do something to the object on which they are working. For example, a user writing a report using a wordprocessor will want to format the document, count the number of words typed, and check the spelling. The user instructs the system to do these operations by issuing appropriate commands. Typically, commands are carried out in a sequence, with the system responding appropriately (or not) as instructed.
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Instructing: One of the main benefits of designing an interaction based on issuing instructions is that the interaction is quick and efficient. It is particularly fitting where there is a need to frequently repeat actions performed on multiple objects. Examples include the repetitive actions of saving, deleting, and organizing files.
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity.last:. They are: | Instructing: Activity 2.5
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Activity 2.5: There are many different kinds of vending machines in the world. Each offers a range of goods, requiring the user initially to part with some money. Figure 2.6 shows photos of two different vending machines, one that provides soft drinks and the other a range of snacks. Both use an instructional mode of interaction. However, the way they do so is quite different.
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity.last:. They are: | Activity 2.5: Figure 2.6: Two different types of vending machine
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Activity 2.5: What instructions must be issued to obtain a can of coke from the first machine and a bar of chocolate from the second? Why has it been necessary to design a more complex mode of interaction for the second vending machine? What problems can arise with this mode of interaction?
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity.last:. They are: | Activity 2.5: Comment
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Comment: The first vending machine has been designed using simple instructions. There are a small number of drinks to choose from and each is represented by a large button displaying the label of each drink. The user simply has to press one button and this should have the effect of returning the selected drink. The second machine is more complex, offering a wider range of snacks. The trade-off for providing more choices, however, is that the user can no longer instruct the machine by using a simple one-press action but is required to use a more complex process, involving: (i) reading off the code, e.g. C12, under the item chosen; then (ii) keying this into the number pad adjacent to the displayed items; and (iii) checking the price of the selected option and ensuring that the amount of money inserted is the same or greater ( depending on whether or not the machine provides change). Problems that can arise from this type of interaction are the customer misreading the code and/or miskeying in the code, resulting in the machine not issuing the snack or providing the wrong item.
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Comment: A better way of designing an interface for a large number of choices of variable cost might be to continue to use direct mapping, but use buttons that show miniature versions of the snacks placed in a large matrix ( rather than showing actual versions). This would use the available space at the front of the vending machine more economically. The customer would need only to press the button of the object chosen and put in the correct amount of money. There is less chance of error resulting from pressing the wrong code or keys. The trade-off for the vending company, however, is that the machine is less flexible in terms of which snacks it can sell. If a new product line comes out they will also need to replace part of the physical interface to the machine?which would be costly.
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Comment: Another ubiquitous vending machine is the ticket machine. Typically, a number of instructions have to be given in a sequence when using one of these. Consider ticket machines designed to issue train tickets at railway stations?how often have you (or the person in front of you) struggled to work out how to purchase a ticket and made a mistake? How many instructions have to be given? What order are they given in? Is it logical or arbitrary? Could the interaction have been designed any differently to make it more obvious to people how to issue instructions to the machine to get the desired train ticket?
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity.last:. They are: | Comment: Comment
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Comment: Ticketing machines vary enormously from country to country and from application to application. They are often not standardized. Therefore, a person's knowledge of the Eurostar ticketing machine in London will not be useful when buying a ticket for the Sydney Monorail or cinema tickets for the Odeon. Sometimes the interaction has been designed where the user has to specify the type of ticket first, e.g. adult, child, the kind of ticket, e.g. single, return, special saver, then the destination, and finally to insert their money. Others require that the user insert a credit card first, before selecting the destination and the type of ticket.
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity.last:. They are: | Comment: Conversing
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Conversing: This form of interaction is based on the idea of a person having a conversation with a system, where the system acts as a dialog partner. In particular, the system is designed to respond in a way another human
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Conversing: being might when having a conversation. It differs from the activity of instructing insofar as it encompasses a two-way communication process with the system acting like a partner rather than a machine that obeys orders. It has been most commonly used for applications where the user needs to find out specific kinds of information or wants to discuss issues. Examples include advisory systems, help facilities, and search engines.
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Conversing: The kinds of conversation that are currently supported range from simple voice-recognition, menu-driven systems that are interacted with via phones to more complex natural languagebased systems that involve the system parsing and responding to queries typed in by the user. Examples of the former include banking, ticket booking, and train-time inquiries, where the user talks to the system in single-word phrases and numbers e.g. yes, no, three, in response to prompts from the system. Examples of the latter include search engines and help systems, where the user types in a specific query e.g. "how do I change the margin widths?", to which the system responds by giving various answers.
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Conversing: A main benefit of developing a conceptual model that uses a conversational style of interaction is that it allows people, especially novices, to interact with a system in a way that is familiar to them. For example, the search engine ?eAsk Jeeves for Kids!?f allows children to ask a question in a way they would when asking their teachers or parents?rather than making them reformulate their question in terms of keywords and Boolean logic. Similarly, the generation of virtual representatives that have been incorporated into online store websites offer customers quick and direct answers to their product-related queries. An example is Anna, whose appearance was commented upon in the last chapter. She is a semi-cartoon character fronting the Swedish furniture store Ikea's Help center
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Conversing: (www.ikea.com)  by directing the user to a part of the store's website in response to his or her questions typed in at the dialog box (see Figure 2.7) . For example, when a user types in "do you have any kitchen chairs?" Anna replies "please have a look at the chairs" and a page of chairs is automatically displayed. The system matches keywords in the queries to a database of suitable web pages or answers.
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity.last:. They are: | Conversing: Figure 2.7: An example of an online agent, Anna, designed by Verity for Ikea furniture store
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Conversing: A disadvantage of this approach is the potential misunderstandings that can arise when the system is unable to answer the user's question in the way the user expects. This tends to happen when more complex questions are asked that cannot rely on single keyword matching. For example, a child might type in a seemingly simple question to Ask Jeeves for Kids, like "How many legs does a centipede have?" to which Jeeves replies with the following:
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Conversing: While these are potentially interesting links, it is unlikely that the original question will be answered by following any of them.
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Conversing: Another problem that can arise from using a conversational-based interaction type is that certain kinds of tasks are transformed into cumbersome and one-sided interactions. This is especially true for automated phone-based systems that use auditory menus to advance the interaction. Users have to listen to a voice providing several options, then make a selection, and repeat through further layers of menus before accomplishing their goal, e.g. reaching a real human, paying a bill. Here is the beginning of a dialog between a user who wants to find out about car insurance and an insurance company's reception system:
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity.last:. Here is the beginning of a dialog between a user who wants to find out about car insurance and an insurance company's reception system: | Conversing: < user dials an insurance company >
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity. | Conversing: "Welcome to St. Paul's Insurance Company. Press 1 if new customer 2 if you are an existing customer" < user presses  1>
Interaction Types , 4.	Exploring?where users move through a virtual environment or a physical space. Virtual environments include 3D worlds and virtual reality systems. They enable users to hone in on their familiar knowledge of physically moving around. Physical spaces that use sensor-based technologies include smart rooms and ambient environments, also enabling people to capitalize on familiarity.last:. Here is the beginning of a dialog between a user who wants to find out about car insurance and an insurance company's reception system: | Conversing: "Thank you for calling St. Paul's Insurance Company. If you require house insurance press
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. Here is the beginning of a dialog between a user who wants to find out about car insurance and an insurance company's reception system: | 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. Here is the beginning of a dialog between a user who wants to find out about car insurance and an insurance company's reception system: | < user presses  2>
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. Here is the beginning of a dialog between a user who wants to find out about car insurance and an insurance company's reception system: | < user presses  2>: "You have reached the car insurance division. If you require information about fully
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. Here is the beginning of a dialog between a user who wants to find out about car insurance and an insurance company's reception system: | < user presses  2>: comprehensive insurance press 1, 3rd-party insurance press 2 ?c"
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. Here is the beginning of a dialog between a user who wants to find out about car insurance and an insurance company's reception system: | < user presses  2>: Manipulating
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Manipulating: This form of interaction involves manipulating objects and capitalizes on users' knowledge of how they do so in the physical world. For example, virtual objects can be manipulated by moving, selecting, opening, and closing. Extensions to these actions include zooming in and out, stretching, and shrinking?actions that are not possible with objects in the real world. Physical toys and robots have also been embedded with computation and capability that enables them to act and react in programmable ways depending on whether they are squeezed, touched, sensed, or moved. Tagged physical objects, e.g. balls, bricks, blocks, that are manipulated in a physical world, e.g. placed on a surface, can result in other physical and digital events occurring, such as a lever moving or a sound, comment, or animation being played. For example, the Chromarium color cubes were designed to enable children to mix colors (a very familiar physical activity) using a novel form of physical?digital interaction (Rogers et al., 2002a). The two colored cubes have hidden RFID tags[1] embedded in them; when they are placed next to a RFID reader (in this case a covered plinth on the table), a computer detects which colors are face up. In Figure 2.8 the faces showing are red and yellow. Their digital counterparts are depicted on the large vertical screen on the wall, together with an animation of the resulting color when the two colors are mixed?in this case it is orange.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Manipulating: Figure 2.8: The Chromarium color cubes. Turning the two physical cubes on the table results in digital counterpart colors being mixed on the display, depending on which surface of the cubes are face up on the table
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Manipulating: What might be the advantages of using a physical?digital form of manipulation? One of the main benefits, when used in this context, is to encourage creativity and playfulness. In a study exploring color mixing, it was found that young children (aged 4?6 years) were far more creative, collaborative, and reflective when mixing colors with the physical?digital cubes compared with mixing digital colored disks as part of software applications (Rogers et al., 2002a). In particular, they explored many more combinations and tried to see if they could change the density of the colors being mixed, for example, by placing the cubes on top of each other and pressing them hard on the table.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Manipulating: The MIT Media Lab has also developed a new generation of digital manipulatives? computationallyenhanced physical artifacts (see Figure 2.9) . One form of manipulative?the Cricket?comprises a tiny microchip processor, that is capable of two-way infrared communication and controlling motors and sensors (Resnick et al., 1998). Crickets can be programmed and combined with physical artifacts, sensors, and motors to enable students to explore programming concepts in novel physical ways.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Manipulating: Figure 2.9: ( a) Two Cricket components, roughly the size of a matchbox car. (b) Crickets can be programmed and combined with physical artifacts, sensors, and motors to create novel working physical models
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Manipulating: A framework that has been highly influential in informing the design of software applications is direct manipulation (Shneiderman, 1983). It proposes that digital objects be designed at the interface that can be interacted with in ways that are analogous to how physical objects in the physical world are manipulated. In so doing, direct manipulation interfaces are assumed to enable users to feel that they are
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Manipulating: directly controlling the digital objects represented by the computer. To enable this to happen, Shneiderman (1983) has outlined three core principles that need to be followed. These are:
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Manipulating: continuous representation of the objects and actions of interest; rapid reversible incremental actions with immediate feedback about the object of interest;  physical actions and button pressing instead of issuing commands with complex syntax.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Manipulating: According to these principles, an object on the screen remains visible while a user performs physical actions on it and any actions performed on it are immediately visible. For example, a user can move a file by dragging an icon that represents it from one part of the desktop to another. Shneiderman points out that there are many benefits of direct manipulation. These include:
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Manipulating: helping beginners learn basic functionality rapidly; enabling experienced users to work rapidly on a wide range of tasks; allowing infrequent users to remember how to carry out operations over time; preventing the need for error messages, except very rarely; showing users immediately how their actions are furthering their goals; reducing users' experiences of anxiety; helping users gain confidence and mastery and feel in control.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Manipulating: Apple Computer Inc. was one of the first computer companies to design an operating environment that used direct manipulation as its central mode of interaction. The highly successful Macintosh desktop demonstrates the main principles of direct manipulation (see Figure 2.10) . One of their assumptions was that people expect their physical actions to have physical results, so when a drawing tool is used, a corresponding line should appear and when a file is placed in the trashcan, a corresponding sound or visual cue showing it has been successfully thrown away is used (Apple Computer Inc., 1987). A number of visual and auditory cues was used to provide such feedback, including various animations and sounds, e.g. shrinking and expanding icons accompanied with ?eshhhlicc?f and ?ecrouik?f sounds to represent opening and closing of files). Much of the interaction design was geared towards providing clues to the user to know what to do, to feel comfortable, and to enjoy exploring the interface. More recent Mac interfaces follow the same principles, but have become more colorful, use more animation, and provide more detailed icons that have a 3D perspective.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Manipulating: Figure 2.10: Two screen shots of (a) an original (1987) and (b) more recent (2005) Mac desktop interface. What are the main differences?
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Manipulating: Many applications have been developed based on some form of direct manipulation, e.g. wordprocessing packages, video games, learning tools, and image editing tools. However, while direct manipulation interfaces provide a very versatile mode of interaction they do have their drawbacks. In particular, not all tasks can be described by objects and not all actions can be undertaken directly. Some tasks are also better achieved through issuing commands. For example, consider how you edit an essay using a wordprocessor. Suppose you had referenced work by Ben Shneiderman but had spelled his name as Schneiderman, with an extra ?ec?f throughout the essay. How would you correct this error using a direct manipulation interface? You would need to read through your essay and manually select the ?ec?f in every ?eSchneiderman,?f highlighting and then deleting it. This would be very tedious and it would be easy to miss one or two. By contrast, this operation is relatively effortless and also likely to
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Manipulating: be more accurate when using a command-based interaction. All you need to do is instruct the wordprocessor to find every ?eSchneiderman?f and replace it with ?eShneiderman.?f This can be done through selecting a menu option or using a combination of command keys and then typing the changes required into the dialog box that pops up.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. These include: | Manipulating: Exploring
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Exploring: This mode of interaction involves users moving through virtual or physical environments. For example, users can explore aspects of a virtual 3D environment, e.g. the interior of a building. Physical environments can also be embedded with sensing technologies that, when they detect the presence of someone or certain body movements, respond by triggering certain digital or physical events to occur. Similar to direct manipulation and direct manipulatives, the fundamental idea is to enable people to explore and interact with an environment, be it physical or digital, by exploiting their knowledge of how they move and navigate through existing spaces.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Exploring: Many 3D virtual environments have been built that include virtual worlds designed for people to move between various rooms and buildings to learn, e.g. virtual universities, and fantasy worlds where people wander around different parts to socialize, e.g. virtual parties. A number of virtual landscapes depicting cities, parks, buildings, rooms, and datasets have also been built, both realistic and abstract, that enable users to fly over them and zoom in and out of different parts. For example, a team of computer scientists at University College London has built a number of city-scale environments, including the City of London (see Figure 2.11) , that can be explored on a desktop machine or using a specially built CAVE system. A CAVE (Computer Automatic Virtual Environment) is designed to provide a sense of immersion through providing 3D video images and audio. When inside a CAVE, the user is presented with high-resolution stereo images projected in real time on its walls and the floor. When viewed through shutter glasses, the left/right stereo images are presented separately to the left and right eyes, respectively, producing the illusion of 3D objects appearing both within and beyond the walls of the CAVE. The images are presented with reference to the user's viewpoint, which is continuously updated. The user navigates through a virtual environment by moving his body, arms, and head in the CAVE.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. These include: | Exploring: Figure 2.11: An example of a 3D virtual city
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Exploring: Other virtual environments that have been built include worlds that are larger than life, enabling users to move around them, experiencing things that are normally impossible or invisible to the eye (Figure 2.12a) ; highly realistic representations of architectural designs, allowing clients and customers to imagine how they will use and move through planned buildings and public spaces (Figure 2.12b)  and visualizations of complex datasets that scientists can virtually climb inside and experience (Figure 2.13).
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Exploring: Figure 2.12: A CAVE that enables the user to stand near a 10-meter insect like a grasshopper, be swallowed and end up in its abdomen, and a life-like simulation of a newly designed train station that enables users to imagine what it would be like to walk through it
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Exploring: Figure 2.13: NCSA's CAVE being used by a scientist to move through 3D visualizations of their datasets
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Exploring: A number of physical environments have been developed in which are embedded sensor technologies and other location-detection technologies. They are often called context-aware environments: the location and/or presence of people in the vicinity of a sensing device is detected and based on this, the environment decides which digital information to provide on a device, e.g. a PDA, or which action to perform, e.g. changing lights in a room, that is considered relevant or useful to the person at a particular time and place. For example, a number of electronic tourist guides have been developed that run on mobile devices, e.g. PDAs and cell phones equipped with GPS, that provide information about restaurants, historical buildings, and other places of interest as the tourist wanders near them in an unfamiliar city (Cheverst et al., 2000). Physically embedded environments have also been designed to extend how children learn. For example, the Ambient Wood project was designed as an outdoor learning experience where a physical woodland was wired to present various forms of digital information to children, as they moved around it (Rogers et al., 2005). Depending on which part of the woodland they passed by, e.g. a particular kind of tree, a bush, a hole, an image would occasionally pop up on a PDA they were carrying, or a sound was played via hidden speakers or heard through a special handheld audio device? the ambient horn (see Figure 2.14) . The idea was to provide contextually-relevant digital information that would enhance the ?eusual?f physical experience available to children when exploring an outdoor world.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Exploring: Figure 2.14: The Ambient Wood. Children (a) listening to ambient sounds and (b) viewing images that popped up as they walked past certain locations in the wired wood
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Exploring: Another example of a context-aware physical environment is the smart home. This is a real house embedded with a complex network of sensors and audio/video recording devices, with the purpose of detecting and identifying various environmental parameters, e.g.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Exploring: temperature, human presence, and aspects of the occupant's behavior, e.g. the occupant's routines and deviations. The idea behind the design of smart homes is that through using the various data collected and/or monitored, contextually relevant forms of digital information can be provided to the occupants or others, e.g. caregivers, family members, at appropriate times in different parts of the house or other places. A few, much publicized, smart homes were built based on this philosophy, including the ?eAware Home?f in the USA (Abowd et al., 2000) , the ?eUbiquitous Home?f in Japan (Yamazake, 2005), and the ?eOrange-at-Home?f in the UK (Harper, 2003) . Living experiments were subsequently conducted to see how real families would respond and adapt to such a set-up, over a period of several months. Activity 2.7
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Exploring: Online and video games often involve players moving through a virtual environment, e.g. chasing someone, running from someone, driving a vehicle through hazardous terrain, and manipulating objects, e.g. using swords, holding steering wheels, opening doors. Rich and highly realistic graphical interfaces are used, where gamers are represented graphically on screen as 3D realistic avatars that are moved and controlled via a joystick and/or pushing buttons on a console. In the early days of gaming, however, games developers were largely restricted to instruction-based types of interaction. For example, the ZORK game introduced in the early 1980s (Figure 2.15)  required the players to move around the virtual environment by typing in text commands. To what extent do you think this affects the gaming experience? Do you think the early text-based games were as engaging and exciting as modern-day ones (see Figure 2.16) ?
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. These include: | Exploring: Figure 2.16: A 3D virtual game (Voodoo Island), involving an avatar-based mode of interaction
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. These include: | Exploring: Comment
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: The early text-based games required the user to imagine aspects of the game and to remember a large number of text commands to enable them to move around and progress with the game. In this respect, the user experience can be viewed as less gripping and involve more mental effort than more recent video games. Drama and tension are added when games involve interacting with rich and realistic graphics, listening to accompanying stereo sounds, and seeing flashing text cues. Perhaps the main difference between the two gaming experiences is similar to that between reading a book on the sofa and watching a 3D movie in an IMAX theatre; both can be very engaging but in quite different ways.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. These include: | Comment: Box 2.3: Which is best?agent, context-aware, direct manipulation, or command-based interactions?
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: A big debate in interaction design is concerned with how and who controls an interface. The different forms of interaction available vary in terms of how much control a user has and how much the computer has. At one end of the spectrum are (i) command-based and (ii) direct manipulation interfaces where the user is primarily in control of the interaction. At the other end are (i) agents, e.g. guides, wizards, companions, assistants, and (ii) context-aware environments where the system is largely in control, deciding what to do and making suggestions to the user.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: Advocates of the agent approach, e.g. Nicholas Negroponte claim it can be much more versatile than direct manipulation or command-based interfaces, allowing users to do what they want to do through delegating the boring and time-consuming tasks to an agent. Negroponte uses the analogy of a well-trained English butler who answers the phone, tends to a person's needs, fends off callers, and tells ?ewhite lies?f if necessary on his master's behalf. Similarly, a digital butler is designed to read a user's email and flag the important ones, scout the web and newsgroups for interesting information, screen unwanted electronic intrusions, and so on. This approach assumes that people like to delegate work to others rather than directly interact with computers themselves.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: Proponents of the context-aware approach argue that enabling the environment to monitor, recognize, and detect deviations in a person's behavior enables timely information to be provided that can be helpful and even critical at times, e.g. Abowd and Mynatt (2000). For example, elderly people's movements can be detected in the home and emergency or care services alerted if something untoward happens to them that might otherwise go unnoticed, e.g. they fall over and break a leg and are unable to get to a telephone.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: The problem with delegating tasks to agents or leaving it to the environment to determine how to respond in a certain way is that it is very difficult to accurately predict all the things users want done, what is really happening to them, or the type of information they might want or find useful at a particular time. If the agents do the tasks incorrectly or the environment provides inappropriate information, frustration and anger will ensue. For example, a person may choose to take a rest in an unexpected area (on the carpet), which could be detected as a fall. Moreover, many users do not want to be constantly monitored, as it violates their sense of privacy, nor do they like to be told what to do by a computer system. Imagine your car deciding you should be driving more slowly because it is raining.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: Advocates of the direct manipulation approach, e.g. Ben Shneiderman, suggest that it is preferable because it allows users to enjoy mastery and being in control. People like to know what is going on, be involved in the action, and have a sense of power over the computer? all of which direct manipulation interfaces support.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: Advocates of the command-based approach go one step further, arguing that many tasks are best carried out at an abstract level, where the user is completely in control. Issuing abstract commands based on a carefully designed set of syntax and semantics is often a very efficient and elegant way of performing many operations. This is especially the case for repetitive operations, where the same action needs to be performed on multiple objects. Examples include sorting out files, deleting accumulated email messages, opening and closing files, and installing applications comprising multiple files?which when done by direct manipulation or through delegation can be inefficient or ambiguous.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: To what extent do you need to be in control in your everyday and working life? Are you happy to let the computer monitor and decide what you need or do you prefer to tell the computer what you want doing?
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. These include: | Comment: Other Ways of Conceptualizing Activities
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: Besides the four core activities of instructing, conversing, manipulating, and exploring, there are many other ways of describing the specific domain and context-based activities users engage in, such as learning, working, socializing, browsing, writing, problem-solving, decision-making, and informationsearching?to name but a few. We suggest that when considering how to design for these, it is useful to think about them in terms of the core interaction types, and in so doing, tease out the dilemmas and issues that might arise when using a particular interface.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. These include: | Comment: Another way of classifying activity types is in terms of the context in which they are conducted.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. These include: | Comment: McCullough (2004) suggests 30 different kinds of situated activities, organized by: work, e.g.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: presenting to groups, documenting, home, e.g. recharging oneself, resting, in town, e.g. eating, drinking, and talking, and on the road, e.g. walking, driving. The purpose of his framework is to help designers be less ad hoc and more systematic when thinking about the usability of technology-modified places in the environment. Similarly, our set of core interaction types is intended to help designers evaluate the user activities involved in a user experience, and to contemplate the pros and cons of using different interface types to support them. Specific design and research concerns are outlined in Chapter 6 when considering interaction types in relation to interface types.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. These include: | Comment: Box 2.4: From controlling to coupling: A new way of conceptualizing interactions
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: The quest to develop new interaction techniques that go beyond the WIMP interface requires different conceptualizing for the nature of the interaction between person and environment. Rather than considering how to design a dialog for a user and a system, new frameworks are needed that can inform how to design a particular kind of interface and interaction style. For example, a different way of thinking is needed about what people can or might do in the physical world (and how they might react) when provided with contextually-relevant digital information at certain times, as a result of having their
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: ?epresence,?f ?estates,?f and ?elevels?f being detected, e.g. emotional state, state of learning, information needs, when using sensing and tracking technologies. Instead of the user controlling an input device to interact with a computer, the ubiquitous environment has to detect the location of someone and determine what information, e.g. a sound, a message, an image, to present via a personal display, e.g. cell phone, PDA, or public display, e.g. a wall display, speakers.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: One way of describing these different forms of interactions is in terms of the coupling between an action and an effect. Couplings can be viewed as tight or loose. A tight coupling is where an action, e.g. an arm gesture, causes an effect that is obvious and immediate to a person or persons present, e.g. a light switches on. A loose coupling is where the relationship between an action and effect is not obvious or immediate, e.g. a person walking past a hidden sensor in the environment may trigger a message to appear on someone else's cell phone. Neither person may perceive or understand how the event was caused. The decision of how tight to design the coupling will depend on the nature of the user experience. Loose couplings involving ambiguity are a powerful tactic to use when developing interactive games ( Rogers and Muller, 2006). Tight couplings are considered necessary where feedback needs to be visible and immediate, such as being able to turn on the lights or taps and get instant light or water (see Chapter 1).
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: The notion of coupling is very different from the conceptualization of a user having a dialog with a system or directly manipulating an interface, where the user is very much in control of the interaction, with the system responding to the user's requests. A coupling may involve a one-off action?effect, e.g. switching on the light, or a series of interactions, e.g. interacting with a virtual character to find out more about its likes/dislikes. Accordingly, feedback may be designed to be immediate or delayed.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: This different perspective on user interaction requires thinking differently about how to design for user experiences. New frameworks have begun to appear to provide guidance. For example, Benford et al'.s (2005)  framework describes how to analyze the movements of sensing-based interfaces in terms of whether they are to be expected, sensed, and desired by the users while Bellotti et al.'s (2002) framework poses questions to designers as to how to compensate for the lack of GUI features in sensor-based interactions, e.g. obvious feedback and user control.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: [1]RFID stands for Radio Frequency Identification and is a method of remotely storing and retrieving data using tags that come in the form of stickers, disks, cards, etc., which can receive and respond to queries sent wirelessly from an RFID transceiver.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. These include: | Comment: Use of content on this site is subject to the restrictions set forth in the Terms of Use.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5" | Comment: Page Layout and Design c2015 Skillsoft Ireland Limited - All rights reserved, individual content is owned by respective copyright holder.
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. These include: | Comment: Feedback | Privacy and Cookie Policy (Updated 12/2014) | v.4.0.78.153
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. These include: | Comment: Chapter 2 - Understanding and Conceptualizing Interaction Interaction Design: Beyond
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. These include: | Comment: Human-Computer Interaction, Second Edition by  Helen Sharp, Yvonne Rogers and Jenny Preece
Interaction Types , 1, car insurance press 2, travel insurance press 3, health insurance press 4, other press 5"last:. These include: | Comment: John Wiley & Sons c 2007 Citation Recommend?
Theories, Models, and Frameworks , last:. These include: | 2.4 Theories, Models, and Frameworks
Theories, Models, and Frameworks ,  | Other sources of inspiration and knowledge that are used to inform design and guide research are theories, models, and frameworks (Carroll, 2003). A theory is a wellsubstantiated explanation of some aspect of a phenomenon, for example, the theory of information processing that explains how the mind, or some aspect of it, is assumed to work. A model is a simplification of some aspect of human?computer interaction intended to make it easier for designers to predict and evaluate alternative designs. A framework is a set of interrelated concepts and/or a set of specific questions that is intended to inform a particular domain area, e.g. collaborative learning, online communities, or an analytic method, e.g. ethnographic studies.
Theories, Models, and Frameworks ,  | Theories. Over the last 30 years, numerous theories have been imported into humancomputer interaction, providing a means of analyzing and predicting the performance of users carrying out tasks for specific kinds of computer interfaces and systems. These have been primarily cognitive, social, and organizational in origin. For example, cognitive theories about human memory were used in the 1980s to determine what were the best ways of representing operations, given people's memory limitations. One of the main benefits of applying such theories in interaction design is to help identify factors, e.g. cognitive, social, and affective, relevant to the design and evaluation of interactive products. Some of the most influential theories in HCI, e.g. Fitt's Law, and others that are making their mark, e.g. distributed cognition, will be covered in later chapters.
Theories, Models, and Frameworks ,  | Models. Models are typically abstracted from a theory coming from a contributing discipline, e.g. psychology, that can be directly applied to interaction design. For example, Norman (1988) developed a number of models of user interaction based on theories of cognitive processing arising out of cognitive science, that were intended to explain the way users interacted with interactive technologies. These include his cyclical seven stages of action model (see Chapter 3) ? that describes how users move from their plans to executing physical actions they need to perform to achieve them, to evaluating the outcome of their actions with respect to their goals. Another highly influential model based on cognitive theory that made its mark in the 1980s was Card, Moran, and Newell's keystroke model (see Chapters 3 and 15). This was used by a number of researchers and designers as a predictive way of analyzing user performance for different interfaces to determine which would be the most effective. More recent models developed in interaction design are user models, that predict what information users want in their interactions, and models that characterize core components of the user experience, such as Norman's (2004) model of emotional design (Chapter 5).
Theories, Models, and Frameworks ,  | Frameworks. A number of frameworks have been introduced in interaction design to help designers constrain and scope the user experience for which they are designing. In contrast to a model?which is a simplification of a phenomenon?a framework offers advice to designers as to what to design or look for. This can come in a variety of forms, including steps, questions, concepts, challenges, principles, and dimensions. Frameworks, like models, have traditionally been based on theories of human behavior, but they are increasingly being developed from the experiences of actual design practice and the findings arising from user studies.
Theories, Models, and Frameworks ,  | There are many frameworks that have been published in the HCI/interaction design literatures, covering different aspects of the user experience and a diversity of application areas. For example, there are frameworks for helping designers think about how to conceptualize learning, working, socializing, fun, emotion, etc., and others that focus on how to design particular kinds of technologies to evoke certain responses, e.g. persuasive technologies and pleasurable products (see Chapter 5) . A classic early example of a conceptual framework that has been highly influential in human?computer interaction is Norman's (1988) explication of the relationship between the design of a conceptual model and a user's understanding of it (see Figure 2.17) . The framework depicts three interacting components: the designer, the user, and the system. Behind each of these are:
Theories, Models, and Frameworks ,  | The framework is simple but highly effective: it provides a powerful visualization, making explicit the relationship between how a system should function, how it is presented to the users, and how it is understood by the users. In an ideal world, users should be able to carry out their tasks in the way intended by the designer by interacting with the system image which makes it obvious what to do. If the system image does not make the designer's model clear to the users, it is likely that they will end up with an incorrect understanding of the system, which in turn will increase the chances of their using the system ineffectively and making errors. This has been found to happen often in the real world. By drawing attention to this potential discrepancy, designers can be made aware of the importance of trying to bridge the gap more effectively.
Theories, Models, and Frameworks ,  | Theories, models, and frameworks are not mutually exclusive but overlap in their way of conceptualizing the problem and design space, varying in their level of rigor, abstraction, and purpose. Theories tend to be comprehensive, explaining human?computer interactions; models tend to simplify some aspect of human?computer interaction, providing a basis for designing and evaluating systems; frameworks tend to be prescriptive, providing designers with concepts, questions, and principles to consider when designing for a user experience.
Theories, Models, and Frameworks , last:. Behind each of these are: | Assignment
Theories, Models, and Frameworks ,  | Assignment: The aim of this assignment is for you to think about the appropriateness of different kinds of conceptual models that have been designed for similar physical and digital information artifacts.
Theories, Models, and Frameworks , last:. Behind each of these are: | Assignment: a. 	Compare the ways the following information artifacts are organized:
Theories, Models, and Frameworks ,  | Assignment: a personal pocket-sized calendar/diary (one week to a page); a wall calendar (one month to a page, usually with a picture/photo); a wall planner (displaying the whole year).
Theories, Models, and Frameworks ,  | Assignment: What are the main concepts and metaphors that have been used for each (think about the way time is conceptualized for each of them)?
Theories, Models, and Frameworks ,  | Assignment: b. 	Using Johnson and Henderson's (2002) framework, describe the conceptual models that underlie the design of:
Theories, Models, and Frameworks ,  | Assignment: an electronic personal calendar found on a personal organizer or handheld computer; a shared calendar found on the web.
Theories, Models, and Frameworks ,  | Assignment: How do they differ and what are the main benefits compared with the equivalent physical artifacts? What new functionality has been provided? What interface metaphors have been used? Do you think new users will have problems understanding how these kinds of interactive calendars work? What
Theories, Models, and Frameworks , last:. 	Using Johnson and Henderson's (2002) framework, describe the conceptual models that underlie the design of: | Assignment: Chapter 5 - Affective Aspects
Theories, Models, and Frameworks ,  | Chapter 5 - Affective Aspects: Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction, Second Edition by  Helen Sharp, Yvonne Rogers and Jenny Preece
Theories, Models, and Frameworks , last:. 	Using Johnson and Henderson's (2002) framework, describe the conceptual models that underlie the design of: | Chapter 5 - Affective Aspects: John Wiley & Sons c 2007 Citation Recommend?
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , last:. 	Using Johnson and Henderson's (2002) framework, describe the conceptual models that underlie the design of: | 5.4 Frustrating Interfaces and Negative Emotions
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  ,  | In many situations, computer interfaces may inadvertently elicit negative emotional responses, such as anger and disgust. This typically happens when something that should be simple to use or set turns out to be complex. The most commonly cited examples are remote controls, VCRs, printers, digital alarm clocks, and digital TV systems (Rourke, 2005). Getting a printer to work with a new digital camera, trying to switch from watching a DVD to the TV, and changing the time on a digital alarm clock in a hotel can be very trying.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  ,  | This does not mean that developers are unaware of such usability problems. Several methods have been devised to help the novice user get set up and become familiarized with a technology. However, these have sometimes backfired, since the design solution itself has ironically become a source of annoyance and frustration. For example, one technique that was popularized in the 1990s was the use of friendly agents at the interface. The assumption was that novices would feel more at ease with a ?ecompanion?f and would be encouraged to try things out, after listening, watching, following, and interacting with it. Microsoft pioneered a class of agent-based software, Bob, aimed at new computer users (many of whom were viewed as computer-phobic). The agents were presented as friendly characters, including a pet dog and a cute bunny. An underlying assumption was that having these kinds of agents on the screen would make users feel more comfortable with using the software. An interface metaphor of a warm, cozy living room, replete with fire and furniture, was also provided (see Figure 5.5) ? again intended to convey a comfortable feeling.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  ,  | Figure 5.5: ?eAt home with Bob?f software developed for Windows 95. Although now defunct it has been resurrected affectionately to run on a Virtual PC platform
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , last:. 	Using Johnson and Henderson's (2002) framework, describe the conceptual models that underlie the design of: | However, Bob never became a commercial product. Why do you think not?
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  ,  | Contrary to the designer's expectations, many people did not like the idea of Bob at all, finding the interface too cute and childish. However, Microsoft did not give up on the idea of making their interfaces more friendly and developed other kinds of agents, including the infamous ?eClippy?f (a paper clip that has human-like qualities), as part of their Windows 98 operating environment.[1] Clippy typically appeared at the bottom of a user's screen whenever the system ?ethought?f the user needed help carrying out a particular task (see Figure 5.6) . It, too, was depicted as a cartoon character, with a warm personality. This time, Clippy was released as a commercial product but it was not a success. Many Microsoft users found it very trying and intrusive, distracting them from their work. When it was finally retired, numerous websites posted jokes and witty comments, celebrating its demise.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , last:. 	Using Johnson and Henderson's (2002) framework, describe the conceptual models that underlie the design of: | Figure 5.6: Microsoft's agent Clippy
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  ,  | Interfaces, if designed poorly, can make people look stupid, feel insulted or threatened. The effect can be to make them annoyed to the point of losing their temper. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur:
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , last:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | When an application doesn't work properly or crashes.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , last:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | When a system doesn't do what the user wants it to do.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , last:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | When a user's expectations are not met.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , last:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | When a system does not provide sufficient information to let the user know what to do.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , last:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | When error messages pop up that are vague or obtuse.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , last:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | When the appearance of an interface is too noisy, garish, gimmicky, or patronizing.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  ,  | When a system requires users to carry out too many steps to perform a task, only to discover a mistake was made somewhere along the line and they need to start all over again.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , last:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Activity 5.2
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  ,  | Activity 5.2: Provide specific examples for each of the above categories from your own experience, when you have become frustrated with an interactive device, e.g. phone, VCR, vending machine, printer, digital camera, computer. In doing this, write down any further types of frustration that come to mind. Then prioritize these in terms of how annoying they are. Which are the main culprits?
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , last:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Activity 5.2: Comment
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  ,  | Comment: In the text below we provide examples of common frustrations experienced when using computer systems. The most egregious include unhelpful error messages and excessive housekeeping tasks. You no doubt came up with many more.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  ,  | Comment: Often user frustration is a result of bad design, no design, inadvertent design, or ill-thoughtout design. It is rarely caused deliberately. However, the impact of poor design on users can be quite drastic and make them abandon the application or tool.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 1.	Gimmickslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | 1.	Gimmicks
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 1.	Gimmickslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Frustration can happen when clicking on a link to a website only to discover that it is still
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 1.	Gimmicks | ?eunder construction.?f It can be even more annoying when the website displays a road-sign icon of ?emen at work?f or some other jokey sign (see Figure 5.7) . Although the website owner may think such signs amusing, it merely increases the viewer's frustration, having made the effort to go to the website only to be told that it is incomplete.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 1.	Gimmickslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Figure 5.7: Men at work sign for website ?eunder construction.?f
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | 2.	Error messages
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messages | Error messages have a long history in computer interface design, and are notorious for their incomprehensibility. For example, Nielsen (1993) describes an early system that was developed, allowing only for one line of error messages. Whenever the error message was too long, the system truncated it to fit on the line, which the users would spend a long time trying to decipher. The full message was available only by pressing the PF1 (help key) function key. While this may have seemed like a natural design solution to the developers, it was not at all obvious to the users. A much better design solution would have been to use the one line of the screen to indicate how to find more information about the current error? "press the PF1 key for explanation".
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messages | Threatening error messages can also cause users to get frustrated (see Figure 5.8) . Rather than helping them, they can make them panic, especially if subsequently given only two chances to rectify the situation, as is often the case after typing in a password incorrectly. Is it really necessary to use bold red with an exclamation mark? Would it not be more pleasant if the message suggested that the user try again?
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messages | Figure 5.8: The error message that the National Science Foundation (NSF) Fastlane website posts up on the web if a user types in his or her personal details for accessing the protected website incorrectly
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Box 5.1: Main guidelines on how to design good error messages
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messages | Ideally, error messages should be treated as how to fix it messages. Instead of explicating what has happened, they should state the cause of the problem and what the user needs to do to fix it.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messages | Shneider-man (1998) has developed a detailed set of guidelines on how to develop helpful messages that are easy to read and understand. Below are some of the main recommendations.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messages | Rather than condemn users, messages should be courteous, indicating what users need to do to set things right.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Avoid using terms like FATAL, ERROR, INVALID, BAD, and ILLEGAL.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Avoid long code numbers and uppercase letters.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Audio warnings should be under the user's control, since they can cause much embarrassment.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Messages should be precise rather than vague.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Messages should provide a help icon or command to allow users to get context-sensitive help.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messages | off-putting. Rewrite them in more usable, useful, and friendly language that would help users to understand the cause of the problem and how to fix it. For each message, imagine a specific context where such a problem might occur.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | SYNTAX ERROR
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | SYNTAX ERROR: INVALID FILENAME
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | INVALID FILENAME: INVALID DATA
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | INVALID DATA: APPLICATION ZETA HAS UNEXPECTEDLY QUIT DUE TO A TYPE 4 ERROR DRIVE ERROR: ABORT, RETRY OR FAIL?
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | INVALID DATA: Comment
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Comment: How specific the given advice can be will depend on the kind of system involved.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messages | Comment: Here are suggestions for hypothetical systems. SYNTAX ERROR?There is a problem with the way you have typed the command. Check for typos. INVALID FILENAME?Choose another filename that uses only 20 characters or less and is lowercase without any spaces. INVALID DATA?There is a problem with the data you have entered. Try again, checking that no decimal points are used.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Comment: APPLICATION ZETA HAS UNEXPECTEDLY QUIT DUE TO A TYPE 4 ERROR?The
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messages | Comment: application you were working on crashed because of an internal memory problem. Try rebooting and increasing the amount of memory allocated to the application. DRIVE ERROR: ABORT, RETRY OR FAIL?? There is a problem with reading your disk. Try inserting it again.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Comment: Waiting
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messages | Waiting: Websites that take forever to download can be frustrating, especially those that have to load Flash programs. Showing an icon whirring around and the word ?eloading?f with a slow percentage bar increasing on the splash page can be off-putting, unless the user expects or knows that something good is going to appear. Links that hang and eventually do not load can also be very annoying.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Waiting: Upgrading Software
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messages | Upgrading Software: Another common frustration is upgrading a piece of software. Users now have to go through this housekeeping task on a regular basis, especially if they run a number of applications. More often than not it is time-consuming, requiring the user to do a range of things, such as resetting preferences, sorting out extensions, checking other configurations, and learning new ways of doing things. Often, problems can develop that are not detected until later, when a user tries an operation that worked fine before but mysteriously now fails. A common problem is that settings get lost or do not copy over properly during the upgrade. To add to the frustration, users may also discover that several of their well-learned procedures for carrying out tasks have been substantially changed in the upgrade.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Upgrading Software: Appearance
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Appearance: People are often frustrated by:
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messages | Appearance: Websites that are overloaded with text and graphics, making it difficult to find the information desired and slow to access.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Appearance: Flashing animations, especially flashing banner ads and pop-up ads, which are very distracting.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messages | Appearance: The over-use of sound effects and music, especially when selecting options, carrying out actions, running tutorials, or watching website demos.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Appearance: ?eFeaturitis?f? an excessive number of operations, such as the array of buttons on remote controls.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messageslast:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Appearance: Childish designs that keep popping up on the screen, such as certain kinds of helper agents.
Frustrating Interfaces and Negative  , 2.	Error messages | Appearance: Poorly laid out keyboards, pads, control panels, and other input devices that cause users to persistently press the wrong keys or buttons.
Dealing with User Frustration , last:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | 5.4.1 Dealing with User Frustration
Dealing with User Frustration ,  | One way of coping with computer-induced frustration is to vent. For example, a typical response to seeing the cursor freeze on the screen is repeatedly to hit the keys on the keyboard. Another way is to flame. When upset or annoyed by a piece of news or something in an email message, people may overreact and respond by writing things in email that they wouldn't dream of saying to someone face-to-face. They often use keyboard symbols to emphasize their anger or frustration, e.g. exclamation marks (!!!!), capital letters ( WHY DID YOU DO THAT?), and repeated question marks (??????) that can be quite offensive to those on the receiving end. While such venting behavior can make the user feel temporarily less frustrated, it can be very unproductive and can annoy the recipients. Anyone who has received a flame knows just how unpleasant it can be.
Dealing with User Frustration ,  | Information that has been designed into the interface to help users carry out tasks includes tips, handy hints, and contextualized advice. Like error messages, this kind of help information needs to be designed to guide users on what to do next when they get stuck and it is not obvious from the interface what to do. The signaling used at the interface to indicate that such online help is available also needs careful consideration. A cartoon-based agent with a catchy tune may seem friendly and helpful the first time round, but can quickly become annoying. A help icon or command that is activated by the users themselves when they want help is often preferable.
Dealing with User Frustration , last:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Dilemma: Should computers say they're sorry?
Dealing with User Frustration ,  | A provocative idea is that computers should apologize when they make a mistake. Reeves and Nass (1996) , for example, argue that they should be polite and courteous in the same way as people are to one another. While apologizing is normal social etiquette in human behavior, especially when someone makes a mistake, would you agree that computers should be made to behave in the same way? Would users be as forgiving of computers as they are of one another? For example, what would most users think if, after a system had crashed, it came up with a spoken or written apology such as, "I'm really sorry I crashed. I'll try not to do it again"? Would they think that the computer was being sincere? Would the apology make them forgive the computer in the way they forgive other people, after receiving such an apology? Or would it have no effect at all? Worse still, would users perceive such messages as vacuous statements and regard them simply as condescending, thereby increasing their level of frustration? How else might systems communicate with users when they have committed an error?
Dealing with User Frustration ,  | [1]On the Mac version of Microsoft's Office 2001, an anthropomorphized Mac computer with big feet and a hand that conveys various gestures and moods replaced Clippy.
Dealing with User Frustration , last:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Use of content on this site is subject to the restrictions set forth in the Terms of Use.
Dealing with User Frustration ,  | Page Layout and Design c2015 Skillsoft Ireland Limited - All rights reserved, individual content is owned by respective copyright holder.
Dealing with User Frustration , last:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Feedback | Privacy and Cookie Policy (Updated 12/2014) | v.4.0.78.153
Dealing with User Frustration , last:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Chapter 5 - Affective Aspects
Dealing with User Frustration ,  | Chapter 5 - Affective Aspects: Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction, Second Edition by  Helen Sharp, Yvonne Rogers and Jenny Preece
Dealing with User Frustration , last:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | Chapter 5 - Affective Aspects: John Wiley & Sons c 2007 Citation Recommend?
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:. There are many reasons why such emotional responses occur: | 5.3 Expressive Interfaces and Positive Emotions
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E ,  | Expressive forms like emoticons, sounds, icons, and virtual agents have been used at the interface to (i) convey emotional states and/or (ii) elicit certain kinds of emotional responses in users, such as feeling at ease, comfort, and happiness. Icons and animations have been used to indicate the current state of a computer or a cell phone, notably when it is waking up or being rebooted. A classic from the 1980s and 1990 s was the happy Mac icon that appeared on the screen of the Apple computer whenever the machine was booted (see Figure 5.2a) . The smiling icon conveyed a sense of friendliness, inviting the user to feel at ease and even smile back. The appearance of the icon on the screen was also very reassuring to users, indicating that their computer was working correctly. This was especially true for situations where users had to reboot their computer after it had crashed, and where previous attempts to reboot had failed (usually indicated by a sad icon face?see Figure 5.2b) . After 18 years, sadly, the happy Mac icon was laid to rest although the sad Mac icon now shows its face on an iPod if its software needs restoring (see Figure 5.2c) . MacOS has since switched to the use of more abstract icons to indicate starting up and busy with a process, showing a swirling clock or a colorful beach ball.
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E ,  | Figure 5.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of:
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Dynamic icons, e.g. a recycle bin expanding when a file is placed in it.
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E ,  | Animations, e.g. a bee flying across the screen indicating that the computer is doing something, such as checking files.
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Spoken messages, using various kinds of voices, telling the user what needs to be done.
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E ,  | Various sonifications indicating actions and events, e.g. whoosh for window closing, schlook for a file being dragged, ding for new email arriving.
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E ,  | One of the benefits of using expressive embellishments is that they provide reassuring feedback to the user that can be both informative and fun. They can, however, sometimes have the opposite effect on people, who find them intrusive, causing them at times to get annoyed and even angry. This is especially so for ?ecutesy?f looking ones. How enjoyable they are perceived to be varies considerably across cultures. In South Korea and Japan, for example, cute cartoon characters such as those depicted in Manga comics have huge cult followings. Moreover, their influence has become widespread in the design of websites, video games, cell phone skins, etc. These include the use of large-eyed creatures such as those used in Pokemon and Pikachu games, and bright colors and pastels (Marcus, 2002).
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E ,  | Users themselves have also been inventive in expressing their emotions at the computer interface. One well-known method is the use of emoticons. These are keyboard symbols that are combined in various ways to convey feelings and emotions by simulating facial expressions such as smiling, winking, and frowning on the screen. The meaning of an emoticon depends on the content of the message and where it is placed in the message. For example, a smiley face placed at the end of a message can mean that the sender is happy about a piece of news she has just written about. Alternatively, if it is placed at the end of a comment in the body of the message, it usually indicates that this comment is not intended to be taken seriously. Most emoticons are designed to be interpreted with the viewer's head tilted over to the left (a result of the way the symbols are represented on the screen). Some of the best-known ones are presented in Table 5.1. Nowadays, email and instant messaging users can select from ready-made ones, that are often 3D, very colorful, and cute. An example of a collection of smiley icons that a colleague of mine uses is shown in Figure 5.3.
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Table 5.1: Some commonly used emoticons
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Open table as spreadsheet
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Open table as spreadsheet: Emotion 	Expression 	Emoticon 	Possible meanings
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Open table as spreadsheet: Happy Smile :) or :D ( i) Happiness, or (ii) previous comment not to be taken seriously
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Open table as spreadsheet: Sad 	Mouth down : (or :- Disappointed, unhappy
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Open table as spreadsheet: Cheeky 	Wink ;) or; -) Previous comment meant as tongue-in-cheek
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Open table as spreadsheet: Mad 	Brows raised >: 	Mad about something
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Open table as spreadsheet: Very angry 	Angry face 	>:-( 	Very angry, cross
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Open table as spreadsheet: Embarrassed Mouth open 	:O 	Embarrassed, shocked
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Open table as spreadsheet: Sick 	Looking sick :x 	Feeling ill
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Open table as spreadsheet: Naive Schoolboyish look 	<:-) Smiley wearing a dunce's cap to convey that the
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Open table as spreadsheet: sender is about to ask a stupid question
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Open table as spreadsheet: Figure 5.3: A collection of graphical smiley icons used by a colleague in MSN messenger
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E ,  | Open table as spreadsheet: The style of an interface, in terms of the shapes, fonts, colors, balance, white space, and graphical elements that are used and the way they are combined, can also influence its affectiveness. Use of imagery at the interface can result in more engaging and enjoyable experiences (Mullet and Sano, 1995). Until recently, however, the focus of HCI was primarily on usability, with scant attention being paid to the design of aesthetically pleasing interfaces. Empirical studies showing that the aesthetics of an interface can have a positive effect on people's perception of the system's usability (Tractinsky, 1997, 2000) have begun to change that, and the importance of aesthetics is gaining acceptance within the HCI community. When the ?elook and feel?f of an interface is pleasing, e.g. beautiful graphics, nice feel to the way the elements have been put together, well-designed fonts, elegant use of images and color, a good sense of balance, users are likely to be more tolerant, e.g. they may be prepared to wait a few more seconds for a website to download. Furthermore, good-looking interfaces are often more satisfying and pleasurable to use. A key concern, therefore, is to strike a balance between designing pleasurable and usable interfaces (Tractinsky et al., 2000).
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Open table as spreadsheet: Activity 5.1
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E ,  | Activity 5.1: A question of style or stereotype? Figure 5.4 shows two differently designed dialog boxes. Describe how they differ in terms of style. Of the two, which one do you prefer? Why? Which one do you think Europeans would like the most and which Americans?
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E ,  | Activity 5.1: Figure 5.4: Square and round dialog boxes designed by Aaron Marcus (1993): (a) dialog box designed for white American women; (b) dialog box designed for European adult male intellectuals?
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Activity 5.1: Figure 5.4: ( continued )
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Figure 5.4: ( continued ): Comment
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E ,  | Comment: Aaron Marcus, a graphic designer, created the two designs in an attempt to provide appealing interfaces. Dialog box A was designed for white American females while dialog box B was designed for European adult male intellectuals. The rationale behind Marcus's ideas was that European adult male intellectuals like "suave prose, a restrained treatment of information density, and a classical approach to font selection, e.g. the use of serif type in axial symmetric layouts similar to those found in elegant bronze European building identification signs." In contrast, white American females "prefer a more detailed presentation, curvilinear shapes and the absence of some of the more brutal terms ?c favored by male software engineers."
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E ,  | Comment: When the different interfaces were empirically tested by Teasley et al. (1994), their results did not support Marcus's assumptions. In particular, they found that the European dialog box was preferred by all and was considered most appropriate for all users. Moreover, the round dialog box designed for women was strongly disliked by everyone. The assumption that women like curvilinear features did not hold in this context. At the very least, displaying the font labels in a circular plane makes them more difficult to read
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Comment: Chapter 4 - Designing for Collaboration and Communication Interaction Design: Beyond
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Comment: Human-Computer Interaction, Second Edition by  Helen Sharp, Yvonne Rogers and Jenny Preece
Expressive Interfaces and Positive E , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | Comment: John Wiley & Sons c 2007 Citation Recommend?
Social Mechanisms in Communication a , last:.2: ( a) Smiling and sad Apple icons for (b) the classic Mac and (c) the iPod Other ways of conveying the status of a system are through the use of: | 4.2 Social Mechanisms in Communication and Collaboration
Social Mechanisms in Communication a ,  | A fundamental aspect of everyday life is being social?talking to one other. We continuously update each other about news, changes, and developments on a given project, activity, person, or event. For example, friends and families keep each other posted on what's happening at work, school, at the pub, at the club, next door, in soap operas, and in the news. Similarly, people who work together keep each other informed about their social lives and everyday happenings?as well as what is happening at work, for instance when a project is about to be completed, plans for a new project, problems with meeting deadlines, rumors about closures, and so on.
Social Mechanisms in Communication a ,  | The kinds of information that are circulated in different social circles are diverse, varying among social groups and across cultures. The frequency with which it is disseminated is also highly variable. It can happen continuously throughout the day, once a day, weekly, or infrequently. The means by which communication happens are also flexible?it can take place via face-to-face conversations, telephone, videophone, instant messaging, texting, email, fax, and letters. Non-verbal communication also plays an important role in augmenting face-to-face conversation, involving the use of facial expressions, back channeling (?eaha?f and ?eumm?f), voice intonation, gesturing, and other kinds of body language.
Social Mechanisms in Communication a ,  | Underlying the various forms of communication are mechanisms and practices that have evolved to enable us to maintain social order. Rules, procedures, and conventions have been established whose function it is to let people know how they should behave in social groups. Below we describe three core forms of social mechanisms that are used, and then show how technological systems have been and can be designed to support these:
Social Mechanisms in Communication a ,  | The use of conversational mechanisms to facilitate the flow of talk and help overcome conversational breakdowns.
Social Mechanisms in Communication a , last:. Below we describe three core forms of social mechanisms that are used, and then show how technological systems have been and can be designed to support these: | The use of coordination mechanisms to allow people to work and interact together.
Social Mechanisms in Communication a ,  | The use of awareness mechanisms to find out what is happening, what others are doing, and, conversely, to let others know what is happening.
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. Below we describe three core forms of social mechanisms that are used, and then show how technological systems have been and can be designed to support these: | 4.2.1 Conversational Mechanisms
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | Talking is something that is effortless and comes naturally to most people. And yet holding a conversation is a highly skilled collaborative achievement, having many of the qualities of a musical ensemble. Below we examine what makes up a conversation. We begin by examining what happens at the beginning:
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. We begin by examining what happens at the beginning: | A: Hi there.
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. We begin by examining what happens at the beginning: | A: Hi there.: B: Hi!
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. We begin by examining what happens at the beginning: | B: Hi!: C: Hi.
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. We begin by examining what happens at the beginning: | C: Hi.: A: All right?
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. We begin by examining what happens at the beginning: | A: All right?: C: Good. How's it going?
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. We begin by examining what happens at the beginning: | C: Good. How's it going?: A: Fine, how are you?
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. We begin by examining what happens at the beginning: | A: Fine, how are you?: C: Good.
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. We begin by examining what happens at the beginning: | C: Good.: B: OK. How's life treating you?
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | C: Good.: Such mutual greetings are typical. A dialog may then ensue in which the participants take turns asking questions, giving replies, and making statements. Then when one or more of the participants wants to draw the conversation to a close, they do so by using either implicit or explicit cues. An example of an implicit cue is when a participant looks at his watch, signaling indirectly to the other participants that he wants the conversation to draw to a close. The other participants may choose to acknowledge this cue or carry on and ignore it. Either way, the first participant may then offer an explicit signal, by saying, "Well, I must be off now. Got work to do," or, "Oh dear, look at the time. Must dash. Have to meet someone." Following the acknowledgment by the other participants of such implicit and explicit signals, the conversation draws to a close, with a farewell ritual. The different participants take turns saying, "Bye," "Bye then," "See you," repeating themselves several times, until they finally separate.
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. We begin by examining what happens at the beginning: | C: Good.: Activity 4.1
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. We begin by examining what happens at the beginning: | Activity 4.1: How do you start and end a conversation when using (i) the phone and (ii) instant messaging (IM)?
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. We begin by examining what happens at the beginning: | Activity 4.1: Comment
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | Comment: The person answering the call will initiate the conversation by saying "hello" or more formally, the name of their company/department (and sometimes the phone number being called). If the phone has caller ID it can let the person answering the call know who he is talking to, which can enable him to be more personal, e.g. "Hello John, how are you doing?". Phone conversations usually start with a mutual greeting and end with a farewell one. In contrast, conversations that take place using IM have started to evolve new conventions. According to a Korean colleague?who is an avid user of IM?the older generation still tends to use opening and ending greetings when joining and leaving an IM, while the younger generation of users generally does without them, simply starting their message with what they want to talk about, and then stopping when they have got an answer, as if in the middle of a conversation. For example, an IM user might begin by typing "did you see the movie, Batman?," which is followed by a short conversation with someone on line, for example,
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | Comment: "Yes" "How is it?" "It was just so so ?c" and then abruptly leave. Shorthand abbreviations are sometimes used among friends, like ?el8tr?f (later), ?ebb?f (bye bye), ?ecu?f (see you), and ?ettyl?f (talk to you later). Emoticons are also used among close friends and family when signing off, such as.
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | Comment: Such conversational mechanisms enable people to coordinate their ?etalk?f with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop. Throughout a conversation further ?eturn-taking?f rules are followed, enabling people to know when to listen, when it is their cue to speak, and when it is time for them to stop again to allow the others to speak. Sacks et al. (1978)? who are famous for their work on conversation analysis ?describe these in terms of three basic rules:
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. (1978)? who are famous for their work on conversation analysis ?describe these in terms of three basic rules: | Comment: Rule 1: the current speaker chooses the next speaker by asking an opinion, question, or request.
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. (1978)? who are famous for their work on conversation analysis ?describe these in terms of three basic rules: | Comment: Rule 2: another person decides to start speaking.
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. (1978)? who are famous for their work on conversation analysis ?describe these in terms of three basic rules: | Comment: Rule 3: the current speaker continues talking.
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | Comment: The rules are assumed to be applied in the above order, so that whenever there is an opportunity for a change of speaker to occur, e.g. someone comes to the end of a sentence, rule 1 is applied. If the listener to whom the question or opinion is addressed does not accept the offer to take the floor, the second rule is applied, and someone else taking part in the conversation may take up the opportunity and offer a view on the matter. If this does not happen then the third rule is applied and the current speaker continues talking. The rules are cycled through recursively until someone speaks again.
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | Comment: To facilitate rule following, people use various ways of indicating how long they are going to talk and on what topic. For example, a speaker might say right at the beginning of their turn in the conversation that he has three things to say. A speaker may also explicitly request a change in speaker by saying, "OK, that's all I want to say on that matter. So, what do you think?" to a listener. More subtle cues to let others know that their turn in the conversation is coming to an end include the lowering or raising of the voice to indicate the end of a question or the use of phrases like, "You know what I mean?" or simply, ?eOK??f Back channeling (uhhuh, mmm), body orientation, e.g. moving away from or closer to someone, gaze (staring straight at someone or glancing away), and gesture, e.g. raising of arms, are also used in different combinations when talking, to signal to others when someone wants to hand over or take up a turn in the conversation.
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | Comment: Another way in which conversations are coordinated and given coherence is through the use of adjacency pairs (Shegloff and Sacks, 1973). Utterances are assumed to come in pairs in which the first part sets up an expectation of what is to come next and directs the way in which what does come next is heard. For example, A may ask a question to which B responds appropriately:
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. For example, A may ask a question to which B responds appropriately: | Comment: A: So shall we meet at 8:00?
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. For example, A may ask a question to which B responds appropriately: | A: So shall we meet at 8:00?: B: Um, can we make it a bit later, say 8:30?
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | A: So shall we meet at 8:00?: Sometimes adjacency pairs get embedded in each other, so it may take some time for a person to get a reply to their initial request or statement:
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. For example, A may ask a question to which B responds appropriately: | A: So shall we meet at 8:00?: A: So shall we meet at 8:00?
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. For example, A may ask a question to which B responds appropriately: | A: So shall we meet at 8:00?: B: Wow, look at him.
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. For example, A may ask a question to which B responds appropriately: | B: Wow, look at him.: A: Yes, what a funny hairdo!
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. For example, A may ask a question to which B responds appropriately: | A: Yes, what a funny hairdo!: B: Um, can we make it a bit later, say 8:30?
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | A: Yes, what a funny hairdo!: For the most part people are not aware of following conversational mechanisms, and would be hard pressed to articulate how they can carry on a conversation. Furthermore, people don't necessarily abide by the rules all the time. They may interrupt each other or talk over each other, even when the current speaker has clearly indicated a desire to hold the floor for the next two minutes to finish an argument. Alternatively, a listener may not take up a cue from a speaker to answer a question or take over the conversation, but instead continue to say nothing even though the speaker may be making it glaringly obvious it is the listener's turn to say something. Often times a teacher will try to hand over the conversation to a student in a seminar, by staring at her and asking a specific question, only to see the student look at the floor and say nothing. The outcome is an embarrassing silence, followed by either the teacher or another student picking up the conversation again.
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | A: Yes, what a funny hairdo!: Other kinds of breakdowns in conversation arise when someone says something that is ambiguous and the interlocutor misinterprets it to mean something else. In such situations the participants will collaborate to overcome the misunderstanding by using repair mechanisms. Consider the following snippet of conversation between two people:
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. Consider the following snippet of conversation between two people: | A: Yes, what a funny hairdo!: A: Can you tell me the way to get to the Multiplex Ranger cinema?
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | A: Yes, what a funny hairdo!: B: Yes, you go down here for two blocks and then take a right (pointing to the right), go on till you get to the lights and then it is on the left.
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | A: Yes, what a funny hairdo!: A: Oh, so I go along here for a couple of blocks and then take a right and the cinema is at the lights (pointing ahead of him)?
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | A: Yes, what a funny hairdo!: B: No, you go on this street for a couple of blocks (gesturing more vigorously than before to the street to the right of him while emphasizing the word ?ethis?f).
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | A: Yes, what a funny hairdo!: A: Ahhhh! I thought you meant that one: so it's this one (pointing in the same direction as the other person).
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. Consider the following snippet of conversation between two people: | A: Yes, what a funny hairdo!: C: Uh-hum, yes that's right, this one.
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | A: Yes, what a funny hairdo!: Detecting breakdowns in conversation requires the speaker and listener to be attending to what the other says (or does not say). Once they have understood the nature of the failure, they can then go about repairing it. As shown in the above example, when the listener misunderstands what has been communicated, the speaker repeats what she said earlier, using a stronger voice intonation and more exaggerated gestures. This allows the speaker to repair the mistake and be more explicit to the listener, allowing her to understand and follow better what they are saying. Listeners may also signal when they don't understand something or want further clarification by using various tokens, like "Huh?" or "What?" ( Schegloff, 1981), together with giving a puzzled look (usually frowning). This is especially the case when the speaker says something that is vague. For example, they might say "I want it" to their partner, without saying what it is they want. The partner may reply using a token or, alternatively, explicitly ask, "What do you mean by it?"
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | A: Yes, what a funny hairdo!: Taking turns also provides opportunities for the listener to initiate repair or request clarification, or for the speaker to detect that there is a problem and to initiate repair. The listener will usually wait for the next turn in the conversation before interrupting the speaker, to give the speaker the chance to clarify what is being said by completing the utterance (Suchman, 1987).
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. Consider the following snippet of conversation between two people: | A: Yes, what a funny hairdo!: Activity 4.2
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. Consider the following snippet of conversation between two people: | Activity 4.2: How do people repair breakdowns in conversations when using the phone or email?
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. Consider the following snippet of conversation between two people: | Activity 4.2: Comment
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | Comment: In these settings people cannot see each other and so have to rely on other means of repairing their conversations. Furthermore, there are more opportunities for breakdowns to occur and fewer mechanisms available for repair. When a breakdown occurs over the phone, people will often shout louder, repeating what they said several times, and use stronger intonation. When a breakdown occurs via email, people may literally spell out what they meant, making things much more explicit in a subsequent email, using capitals, emoticons, exclamations, bold, highlighting, etc. If the message is beyond repair they may resort to another mode of communication that allows greater flexibility of expression, either telephoning or speaking to the recipient face-to-face.
Conversational Mechanisms , last:. Consider the following snippet of conversation between two people: | Comment: Kinds of Conversations
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | Kinds of Conversations: Conversations can take a variety of forms, such as an argument, a discussion, a debate, a chat, a teetea-teete, or giving someone a ?etelling off.?f A well-known distinction in conversation types is between formal and informal communication. Formal communication involves assigning certain roles to people and prescribing a priori the types of turns that people are allowed to take in a conversation. For example, at a board meeting, it is decided who is allowed to speak, who speaks when, who manages the turn-taking, and what the participants are allowed to talk about.
Conversational Mechanisms ,  | Kinds of Conversations: In contrast, informal communication is the chat that goes on when people socialize. It also commonly happens when people bump into each other and talk briefly. This can occur in corridors, at the coffee machine, when waiting in line, and walking down the street. Informal conversations include talking about impersonal things such as the weather (a favorite) and the cost of living, or more personal things like how someone is getting on with a new roommate. It also provides an opportunity to pass on gossip, such as who is going out to dinner with whom. In office settings, such chance conversations have been found to serve a number of functions, including coordinating group work, transmitting knowledge about office culture, establishing trust, and general team-building (Kraut et al., 1990). It is also the case that people who are in physical proximity, such as those whose offices or desks are close to one another, engage much more frequently in these kinds of informal chats than those who are in distant corridors or buildings. Most companies and organizations are well aware of this and often try to design their office space so that people who need to work closely together are placed close to one another in the same physical space.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | 4.2.2 Designing Collaborative Technologies to Support Conversation As we have seen, ?etalk?f and the way it is managed is integral to coordinating social activities. One of the challenges confronting designers is to consider how the different kinds of communication can be facilitated and supported in settings where there may be obstacles preventing it from happening ?enaturally.?f A central concern has been to develop systems that allow people to communicate with each other when they are in physically different locations and thus not able to communicate in the usual face-to-face manner. In particular, a key issue has been to determine how to allow people to carry on communicating as if they were in the same place, even though they are geographically separated ?sometimes many thousands of miles apart. Another challenge has been to design collaborative technologies to help colocated groups communicate and work together more effectively, especially when creating and sharing content.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Consider the following snippet of conversation between two people: | Box 4.1: The Coordinator: making explicit what is normally implicit in conversations
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | One of the earliest collaborative systems that was developed, based on a theory of conversational mechanisms, was the Coordinator system (Winograd and Flo-res, 1986). It was developed to help people work more effectively through improving the way they communicate with one another. An assumption was that communication could be improved if people could distinguish among the kinds of commitments they make in conversation that are normally implicit. The rationale behind the Coordinator system was to enable users to develop a better awareness of the value of using such ?espeech acts.?f
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Speech act theory is concerned with the functions utterances have in conversations (Austin, 1962; Searle, 1969) . A common function is a request that is asked indirectly (known as an indirect speech act). For example, when someone says, "It's hot in here" they may really be asking if it would be OK to open the window because they need some fresh air. Speech acts range from formalized statements, e.g. "I hereby declare you man and wife", to everyday utterances, e.g. "how about dinner?". Each utterance varies in its force. For example, a command to do something has quite a different force from a polite comment about the state of affairs.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | The Coordinator system was targeted at a variety of work settings, including sales, finance, general management, and planning. Emails could be sent between people in the form of explicit speech acts. For example, when sending someone a request, say "Could you get the report to me," the sender could also select the menu option ?erequest.?f This would be placed in the subject header of the message, thereby explicitly specifying the nature of the speech act. Other speech-act options included offer, promise, inform, and question. The system also asked the user to fill in the dates by which the request should be completed. The user receiving such a message had the option of responding with another labeled speech act. These included:
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. These included: | acknowledge promise counter-offer decline free form.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Thus, the Coordinator was designed to provide a conversational structure, allowing users to make clear the status of their work and, likewise, to be clear about the status of others' work in terms of various commitments.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | The Coordinator and its successors have been found to be most successful in organizations that are hierarchical and need a highly structured system for the management of orders, such as large manufacturing divisions of companies, and where previous support has been mainly in the form of a hodgepodge of paper forms and inflexible task-specific data processing applications (Winograd, 1994). It has received less favorable responses in other kinds of organizations, where many of the people who tried using it in their work either abandoned it or resorted to using only the free-form message facility, which had no explicit demands associated with it. The reason for its failure in these settings was that the system asked too much of people to change the ways they communicated and worked. Requiring them to specify explicitly the nature of their implicit speech acts was found to be artificial and awkward. While some people may be very blatant about what they want doing, when they want it done by, and what they are prepared to do, most people tend to use more subtle and indirect forms of communication to advance their collaborations with others.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Communicating in physically different locations. Email, videoconferencing, videophones, computer conferencing, chatrooms, and instant messaging are well-known examples of some of the collaborative technologies that have been developed to support people communicating at a distance. In addition, online
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. These included: | MUDs (multi-user role-playing environments) and MOOs (text-based environments that grew out of
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | MUDs, enabling users to construct their own worlds using objects) were originally created to enable people to communicate exclusively using text (see Figure 4.1) . The idea was that anyone anywhere who joined the MUD or MOO could take part in a text-based collaborative activity, e.g. playing a game, holding a seminar, or creating a world, by typing their moves and conversations at the prompt. More recently, 3D virtual worlds (also called collaborative virtual environments) have been bolted onto the front end of the text spaces. Instead of typing what they are doing and where they are in a game, narrative, or virtual seminar, players enter and move around virtual rooms and other spaces in the guise of avatars (see Figure 4.1) . Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text:
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | ?c the sensorial parsimony of plain text tends to entice users into engaging their imaginations to fill in missing details while, comparatively speaking, the richness of stimuli infancy virtual realities has an opposite tendency, pushing users' imaginations into a more passive role. ( Curtis,  1992)
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Figure 4.1: A sample of a text-based conversation from an early MUD, called ZORKI, and a conversation held at the virtual ?etheU?f
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Activity 4.3
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Activity 4.3: Look at the two screen shots in Figure 4.1. How does the text-based conversation in the MUD ZORKI differ from that taking place in the 3D graphical world ?etheU??f
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Activity 4.3: Comment
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: The conversation taking place in ZORKI is command-based. The user types in an action she wants to carry out in the imaginary world and the MUD responds by describing the outcome of her action and what other options are available. It requires much imagination on the part of the players to work out what they are doing, where they are, and where they can go. In contrast, the 3D graphical world visually depicts where the players are and what they look like. Much less cognitive effort is involved in working out what is going on. The conversation is also more colloquial, resembling one that takes place in everyday life rather than in a fictional world.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: Media spaces were also experimented with in the late 1980s and 1990s, combining audio, video, and computer systems to "extend the world of desks, chairs, walls and ceilings" (Harrison et al., 1997). The idea behind their design was that people distributed over space and time would be able to communicate and interact with one another as if they were physically present. An early example was the Xerox Media Space that was designed to support the informal types of communication that occur in hallways and at water coolers, providing opportunities for people in the company, located in different offices, to engage in social chat while at their desks (Mackay, 1999). Other examples included Hydra (see Figure 4.2) , Cruiser, and the VideoWindow system (see Box 4.2).
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: Figure 4.2: The Hydra system: Each ?ehydra?f unit consists of a camera, monitor, and speaker and is meant to act as a surrogate for a person in a different space. The design is intended to preserve the personal space that people have in face-to-face meetings, simulating where they would sit in the physical space if they were physically present (Sellen et al., 1992)
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Comment: Box 4.2
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Box 4.2: A number of researchers have tried to capitalize on the social phenomenon of informal communication and the important role it plays at work. In particular, they have been interested in finding ways of using audio?video links to mimic physical settings that are conducive to informal communication for people who are geographically separated. One of the first systems to be built, at Bellcore in 1989, was the
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Box 4.2: VideoWindow System (see Figure 4.3) . The goal was to design a shared space that would allow people in different locations to carry on a conversation as they would do if sitting in the same room drinking coffee together. Two lounge areas that were 50 miles apart were connected with high-bandwidth video channels and full-duplex four-channel audio. Connecting them was a 3 foot ?~ 8 foot ?epicture-window?f onto which video images were projected. The large size was meant to allow viewers to see a room of people roughly the same size as themselves. The system was designed to be active 24 hours a day, so that anyone entering one room could speak to whoever happened to be in the other room.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Box 4.2: Figure 4.3: Diagram of VideoWindow system in use
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Box 4.2: A study by Kraut et al. (1990) of how effective the system was showed that, in general, many of the interactions that took place between the remote conversants were indeed indistinguishable from similar face-to-face interactions?with the exception that they spoke a bit louder and constantly talked about the video system. However, they also found that people who were in the same room tended to talk more with each other than with those in the video-linked room. Various usability problems were identified as contributing to this reluctance to talk with video images of other people. One of these was the tendency for people to move closer to the picture window to strike up a conversation with someone (which is what one would normally do in a face-to-face setting); this had the opposite effect to what the person intended, as it moved his or her head out of the picture and also out of microphone range, meaning he or she could not be seen or heard. Thus, rather than getting nearer to the other person, this behavior had the counterintuitive effect of removing him or her from the ?epicture.?f Moreover, there was no way for participants to know whether they were being seen and heard by the others in the other room. This inability to monitor how others are or are not ?ereceiving?f you caused numerous problems. Another problem was that the system allowed only public conversations, meaning that they could be heard by everyone in the rooms. Such public broadcasting contrasts with how people normally engage in informal face-to-face conversations, where they will often whisper and conspire with each other when a topic becomes more private or secret. Such private conversations clearly could not be supported by the VideoWindow system.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Box 4.2: Another early system, Cruiser, was designed to support informal communication by placing separate audio and video equipment on the desktop of each person who was connected to the system (Fish, 1989) . This set-up differed from the Vide-oWindow system in that it enabled both public and private interactions to take place. It also provided additional functionality that allowed people to initiate conversations by typing in a cruise command followed by a question like, "I'm bored. Anyone want a chat?" or "Can someone help me?"? the aim here being explicitly to encourage people to engage in the kind of talk that they normally do when they bump into each other, but this time over the computer network. A further conversation mechanism built into Cruiser was a ?eglance?f feature that allowed users to check whether the person they wanted to talk to was in fact available before trying to initiate a conversation.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Box 4.2: Many commercial systems are now commonly used to support multiple connections among sites, using a combination of desktop and audio?video links. These can be very useful for virtual teams and centers that have multiple groups working at a number of different sites. High Definition TV has also improved the resolution and quality of images that can make people seem more present.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Box 4.2: Do you think it is better to develop technologies that will allow people to talk at a distance as if they were face-to-face or to develop technologies that will support new ways of conversing?
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Box 4.2: Comment
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: On the one hand, it seems a good idea to develop technologies supporting people communicating at a distance that emulate the way they hold conversations in face-to-face situations. After all, this means of communicating is so well established and second nature to people. Phones and videoconferencing have been developed essentially to support face-toface conversations. It is important to note, however, that conversations held in this way are not the same as when face-to-face. People have adapted the way they hold conversations to fit in with the constraints of the respective technologies. As mentioned earlier, they tend to shout more when misunderstood over the phone. They also tend to speak more loudly when talking on the phone, since they can't monitor how well the person can hear them at the other end of the phone. Likewise, people tend to project themselves more when taking part in a videoconference. They also take longer conversational turns and interrupt each other less (O'Connaill et al., 1993), while turn-taking appears to be much more explicit and greetings and farewells more ritualized.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: On the other hand, it is interesting to look at how the new communication technologies have been extending the way people talk and socialize. SMS texting and instant messaging enable quite different ways of holding a conversation at a distance. Texting enables people to hold fragmentary conversations over long periods, commenting on what each is doing or thinking, allowing the other to keep posted on current developments. The conversation typically comprises short phrases that are typed in or selected from a menu of pre-stored phrases. These kinds of ?estreamlined?f conversations are coordinated simply by taking turns sending and receiving messages. Online chatting and instant messaging have also resulted in new genres of conversation that compensate for the constraints of the medium, where shorthand and abbreviations are frequently used, e.g. the use of expressions like ?eLOL?f? laugh out loud?in response to someone typing in something funny that has happened to them. They also allow hundreds and even
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: blond hair is showing various media he has created to the girl sitting next to him. Others sitting around the display are drawn into his show and subsequently hold a conversation about it (Brignull et al., 2004)
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: Communicating in co-located settings. A number of shareable interfaces (see Chapter 6)  have been developed to facilitate communication and collaboration among co-located groups, including smartboards, tabletops, and various forms of public displays. One approach has been to situate interactive shared displays in public spaces, e.g. hallways, reception areas, that are intended to encourage people to meet and socialize through posting messages or adding opinions. For example, the Notification Collage system (Greenberg and Rounding, 2001) and the Plasma Posters (Churchill et al., 2003) were originally designed to enable people to send notes, news items, and other materials from the PCs in their offices to a large public display. In contrast, the Dynamo system was designed to enable social groups to readily share and exchange a variety of media on a large shared display by hooking up their memory sticks, laptops, cameras, and other devices, in the vicinity of the display (Izadi et al., 2003). A study of its deployment in a sixth form common room in the UK showed how students often used it as a conversational prop while displaying and manipulating media on the shared display, which in turn led to impromptu conversations between those sitting in the room (Brignull et al., 2004).
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: Figure 4.5: The Opinionizer interface and a photo of it being used at a book launch party Box 4.3: Can technologies be designed to help people break the ice and socialize?
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: Have you ever found yourself at a party, wedding, conference, or other social gathering, standing awkwardly by yourself, not knowing who to talk to or what to talk about? Social embarrassment and self-consciousness affect most of us at such moments and is most acute when one is a newcomer and by oneself, such as a first-time attendee at a conference. How can we help make conversation initiation easier and less awkward among people who do not know each other?
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: A number of mechanisms have been employed by organizers of social events, such as asking old-timers to act as mentors and the holding of various kinds of ice-breaking activities. Badge-wearing, the plying of alcohol and food, and introductions by others are also common ploys. While many of these methods can help, engaging in ice-breaking activities requires people to act in a way that is different to the way they normally socialize and which they may find equally uncomfortable or painful to do. They often require people to agree to join in a collaborative game, which they can find embarrassing. This can be exacerbated by the fact that once people have agreed to take part it is difficult for them to drop out, because of the perceived consequences it will have on the others and themselves, e.g. seen by the others as a spoilsport or party-pooper. Having had one such embarrassing experience, most people will shy away from any further kinds of ice-breaking activities.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: How might less intrusive mechanisms be developed using collaborative technologies? One line of research has investigated how computer-based, matchmaking techniques can be used based on algorithms that determine which preferences and views shared among people would make them suitable conversational partners. The profiles of like-minded people are revealed to one other when in close proximity via LCD name tags that light up (Borovoy et al., 1998) or as icons that appear on a person's cell phone display (Burak and Sharon, 2004). While such explicit revelations of what is normally hidden and discreet can be entertaining for some, for others it can feel invasive and an unnatural way of meeting someone.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: An alternative approach is to design a physical space where people can enter and exit a conversation with a stranger in more subtle ways, i.e. one where people do not feel threatened or embarrassed, and which does not require a high level of commitment. The Opinionizer system was designed along these lines, with the aim of encouraging people in an informal gathering to share their opinions visually and anonymously (Brignull and Rogers, 2003). The collective creation of opinions via a public display was intended to provide a talking point to others standing beside it, and to comment on to their neighbor. Users submit their opinions by typing them in at a public keyboard. To add ?ecolor?f and ?epersonality?f to their opinions, a selection of small cartoon avatars and speech bubbles were available. The screen was also divided into four labeled quadrants representing different backgrounds, e.g. ?etechie,?f ?esoftie,?f ?edesigner,?f or ?estudent?f, to provide a further talking point.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: When the Opinionizer was placed in various social gatherings, a ?ehoney-pot?f effect was observed: as the number of people in the immediate vicinity of the Opinionizer increased, a sociable ?ebuzz?f was created in the area. By standing in this space and showing an interest,
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: e.g. visibly facing the screen or reading the text, people gave off a tacit signal to others that they were open to discussion and interested in meeting new people.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: Computer-mediated communication. Collaborative technologies have been designed to support different kinds of communication, from informal to formal and from one-to-one to many-to-many conversations. Collectively, such technologies are often referred to as computer-mediated communication (CMC). The range of systems that support computermediated communication is quite diverse. A summary of the different types is shown in Table 4.1, highlighting how they support, extend, and differ from face-to-face communication. A conventionally accepted classification system of CMC is to categorize them in terms of either synchronous or asynchronous communication. We have also included a third category: systems that support CMC in combination with other collaborative activities, such as meetings, decision-making, and learning. Although some communication technologies are not strictly speaking computer-based, e.g.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: phones, videoconferencing, we have included these in the classification of CMC, as most now are display-based and interacted with or controlled via an interface.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: Table 4.1: Classification of computer-mediated communication (CMC) into three types: (i) synchronous communication, (ii) asynchronous communication, and (iii) CMC combined with other activity
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Comment: ( i) Synchronous communication
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: Where conversations in real time are supported by letting people talk with each other either using their voices or through typing. Both modes seek to support non-verbal communication to varying degrees.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Comment: Examples
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Examples: Talking with voice: videophones, videoconferencing (desktop or wall), media spaces, Voice Over IP (VoIP).
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Examples: Talking via typing: text messaging (typing in messages using cell phones), instant messaging (real-time interaction via PCs), chatrooms, MUDs, virtual worlds.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Examples: New kinds of functionality
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | New kinds of functionality: Virtual worlds allow communication to take place via a combination of graphical representations of self (in the form of an avatar) with a separate chatbox or overlaying speech bubbles.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | New kinds of functionality: Virtual worlds allow people to represent themselves as virtual characters, taking on new personas, e.g. opposite gender, and expressing themselves in ways not possible in face-toface settings.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | New kinds of functionality: Virtual worlds, MUDs, and chatrooms have enabled new forms of conversation mechanisms, such as multi-turn-taking, where a number of people can contribute and keep track of a multi-streaming text-based conversation.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | New kinds of functionality: Instant messaging allows users to multi-task by holding numerous conversations at once.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | New kinds of functionality: Benefits
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Benefits: Not having to physically face people may increase shy people's confidence and self-esteem to converse more in ?evirtual?f public.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Benefits: It allows people to keep abreast of the goings-on in an organization without having to move from their office.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Benefits: It enables users to send text and images between people using instant messaging.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Benefits: In offices, instant messaging allows users to fire off quick questions and answers without the time lag of email or phone-tag.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Benefits: Problems
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Problems: Lack of adequate bandwidth has plagued video communication, resulting in poor-quality images that break up, judder, have shadows, and appear as unnatural images.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Problems: It is difficult to establish eye contact (normally an integral and subconscious part of face-toface conversations) in virtual worlds, videoconferencing, and videophones.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Problems: Having the possibility of hiding behind a persona, a name, or an avatar in a chatroom gives people the opportunity to behave differently. Sometimes this can result in people becoming aggressive, intrusive, and shifting gender.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Problems: Asynchronous communication
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Asynchronous communication: Where communication between participants takes place remotely and at different times. It relies not on time-dependent turn-taking but on participants initiating communication and responding to others when they want or are able to do so. Examples
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Asynchronous communication: Email, bulletin boards, newsgroups, computer conferencing. New kinds of functionality
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Asynchronous communication: Attachments of different sorts (including annotations, images, videos, music) for email and computer conferencing can be sent.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Asynchronous communication: Messages can be archived and accessed using various search facilities. Benefits Can be read at any place and any time.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Asynchronous communication: Greater autonomy and control of when and how to respond, so can attend to it in own time rather than having to take a turn in a conversation at a particular cue.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Asynchronous communication: Can send the same message to many people.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Asynchronous communication: Do not have to interact with person so can be easier to say things than when face-to-face,
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Asynchronous communication: e.g. announcing sudden death of colleague, providing feedback on someone's performance. Problems
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Asynchronous communication: Flaming can take place, where a user writes an angry email expressed in uninhibited language that is much stronger than normal when interacting with the same person face-toface. This includes the use of impolite statements, exclamation marks, capitalized sentences or words, swearing, and superlatives. Such ?echarged?f communication can lead to misunderstandings and bad feelings among the recipients.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Asynchronous communication: Many people experience message overload, receiving numerous emails and junkmail each day. They find it difficult to cope and may overlook an important message while working through their ever-increasing pile of email?especially if they have not read it for a few days. Various interface mechanisms have been designed to help people manage their email better, including filtering, threading, and the use of signaling to indicate the level of importance of a message (which the sender or recipient can make), through color coding, bold font, or exclamation marks placed beside a message.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Asynchronous communication: An assumption has evolved that people will read their messages several times a day and reply to them there and then. However, many people have now reverted to treating email more like postal mail, replying when they have the time or inclination to do so.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Asynchronous communication: CMC combined with other activity
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Asynchronous communication: People often talk with each other while carrying out other activities. For example, designing requires people to brainstorm together in meetings, drawing on whiteboards, making notes, and using existing designs. Teaching involves talking with students as well as writing on the board and getting students to solve problems collaboratively. Various meeting and decision support systems have been developed to help people work or learn while talking together.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Asynchronous communication: Examples
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Examples: Customized electronic meeting rooms have been built that support people in face-to-face meetings, via the use of networked workstations, large public displays, and shared software tools, together with various techniques to help decision-making. One of the earliest systems was the University of Arizona's GroupSystem (see Figure 4.6).
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Examples: Figure 4.6: Schematic diagram of a group meeting room, showing relationship of workstation, whiteboards, and video projector
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Examples: Different combinations of technologies are beginning to be used to support learning in the classroom and remotely. For example, wireless communication, portable devices,
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Examples: e.g. tablet PCs, and interactive whiteboards are being integrated in classroom settings to allow the teacher and students to learn and communicate with one another in novel interactive ways (see Figure 4.7) . More sophisticated and integrated web conferencing tools are also appearing. An example is Macromedia's Breeze, which is a web-based communication system that supports collaborative real-time meetings, instructor-led classes, informational presentations, and e-learning courses.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Examples: supporting conversations at a distance was the videophone. Despite numerous attempts by the various phone companies to introduce them over the last 50 years (see Figure 4.8) , they have failed each time. Why do you think this is so?
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Examples: Figure 4.8: ( a) One of British Telecom's early videophones and (b) a recent mobile ?evisualphone?f developed in Korea
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Examples: Comment
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: One of the biggest problems with commercial landline videophones is that the bandwidth has been too low, resulting in poor resolution and slow refresh. The net effect is the display of unacceptable images: the person in the picture appears to move in sudden jerks, shadows are left behind when a speaker moves, and it is difficult to read lips or establish eye contact. For cell videophones, network coverage has been a big problem: calls can suddenly hang, leaving the callers talking to a blank screen. They also consume more battery power than audio-only phones, are more bulky to carry, and much more expensive to use.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: But perhaps the biggest reason for their lack of uptake is to do with social acceptability: why would anyone want to look at pocket-sized grainy images of the person she is chatting with over the phone? It seems unnatural. We have adapted to talking on the phone while doing something else, such as staring at the ceiling, gesticulating, or watching TV. Many of us do not want to be bothered with having to face a camera on the phone to make sure that the other person can see our face and, moreover, do not want people to see what state we are in, what we are doing, or where we are.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: Another innovation has been to develop systems that allow people to communicate and interact with each other in ways not possible in the physical world. Rather than try to imitate or facilitate face-to-face communication, designers have developed new kinds of interactions. For example, ClearBoard was developed to enable facial expressions of participants to be made visible to others by using a transparent board that showed their face to the others (Ishii et al., 1993). HyperMirror was designed to provide an environment in which the participants could feel as if they were in the same virtual place even though they were physically in different places (Morikawa and Maesako, 1998). Mirror reflections of people in different places were synthesized and projected onto a single screen, so that they appeared side-by-side in the same virtual space. In this way, the participants could see both themselves and others in the same seamless virtual space. Observations of people using the system showed how quickly they adapted to perceiving themselves and others in this way. For example, participants quickly became sensitized to the importance of virtual personal space, moving out of the way if they perceived they were overlapping someone else on the screen (see Figure 4.9).
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: Figure 4.9: Hypermirror in action, showing perception of virtual personal space. (a) A woman is in one room (indicated by the arrow on the screen), (b) while a man and another woman are in the other room chatting to each other. They move apart when they notice they are
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | Comment: ?eoverlapping?f her and (c) virtual personal space is established
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: Another innovative system, called BiReality, developed at Hewlett Packard by Jouppi (2002) uses a teleoperated robotic surrogate to visit remote locations as a substitute for physical travel (see Figure
. The goal was to overcome many of ,  | 4.10) . The goal was to overcome many of the limitations commonly associated with videoconferencing (discussed in Activity 4.5) , by giving the remote person more physical presence at the remote location.
. The goal was to overcome many of ,  | Figure 4.10: BiReality: (a) a surrogate robot at a meeting ?esitting?f between two physically present people, (b) the remote user's view of the meeting while controlling the surrogate, (c) an early version of the surrogate on the move, and (d) a second-generation surrogate designed to preserve the height and sitting/standing posture of the user (Jouppi, 2002)
Coordination Mechanisms , last:. Advocates of the text-based approach, however, have argued that much is lost with having a graphical representation of the world, since participants no longer have to use their imagination to interpret the text: | 4.2.3 Coordination Mechanisms
Coordination Mechanisms ,  | Coordination takes place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something. For example, consider what is involved in playing a game of basketball. Teams have to work out how to play with each other and to plan a set of tactics that they think will outwit the other team. For the game to proceed both teams need to follow (and sometimes contravene) the rules of the game. An incredible amount of coordination is required within a team and between the competing teams in order to play.
Coordination Mechanisms ,  | In general, collaborative activities require us to coordinate with each other, whether playing a team game, moving a piano, navigating a ship, working on a large software project, taking orders and serving meals in a restaurant, constructing a bridge, or playing doubles tennis. In particular, we need to figure out how to interact with one another to progress with our various activities. To help us we use a number of coordinating mechanisms. Primarily, these include:
Coordination Mechanisms ,  | verbal and non-verbal communication schedules, rules, and conventions shared external representations.
Coordination Mechanisms , last:. Primarily, these include: | Verbal and Non-Verbal Communication
Coordination Mechanisms ,  | When people are working closely together they talk to each other, issuing commands and letting others know how they are progressing with their part. For example, when two or more people are collaborating together, as in moving a piano, they shout to each other commands like "Down a bit, left a bit, now straight forward" to coordinate their actions with each other. As in a conversation, nods, shakes, winks, glances, and hand-raising are also used in combination with such coordination ?etalk?f to emphasize and sometimes replace it.
Coordination Mechanisms ,  | In formal settings, like meetings, explicit structures such as agendas, memos, and minutes are employed to coordinate the activity. Meetings are chaired, with secretaries taking minutes to record what is said and plans of actions agreed upon. Such minutes are subsequently distributed to members to remind them of what was agreed in the meeting and for those responsible to act upon what was agreed.
Coordination Mechanisms ,  | For time-critical and routinized collaborative activities, especially where it is difficult to hear others because of the physical conditions, gestures are frequently used (radio-controlled communication systems may also be used). Various kinds of hand signals have evolved, with their own set of standardized syntax and semantics. For example, the arm and baton movements of a conductor coordinate the different players in an orchestra, while the arm and baton movements of a ground marshal at an airport signal to a pilot how to bring the plane into its allocated gate.
Coordination Mechanisms , last:. Primarily, these include: | Activity 4.6
Coordination Mechanisms ,  | Activity 4.6: How much communication is non-verbal? Watch a soap opera on the TV and turn down the volume, look at the kinds and frequency of gestures that are used. Are you able to understand what is going on? How do radio soaps compensate for not being able to use non-verbal gestures? How do people compensate when chatting online?
Coordination Mechanisms , last:. Primarily, these include: | Activity 4.6: Comment
Coordination Mechanisms ,  | Comment: Soaps are good to watch for observing non-verbal behavior as the actors often exaggerate their gestures and facial expressions to convey their emotions. It is easy to work out what kind of scene is happening from the actors' posture, body movements, gestures, and facial expressions. In contrast, actors on the radio use their voice a lot more, relying on intonation and sound effects to help convey emotions. When chatting online, people use emoticons and conventionally accepted abbreviations, e.g. LOL.
Coordination Mechanisms , last:. Primarily, these include: | Comment: Schedules, Rules, and Conventions
Coordination Mechanisms ,  | Comment: A common practice in organizations is to use various kinds of schedules to organize the people who are part of it. For example, consider how a university manages to coordinate its people and available resources. A core task is allocating the thousands of lectures and seminars that need to be run each week with the number of rooms available. A schedule has to be devised that allows students to attend the lectures and seminars for their given courses, taking into account numerous rules and constraints. These include:
Coordination Mechanisms , last:. These include: | Comment: A student cannot attend more than one lecture at a given time.
Coordination Mechanisms , last:. These include: | Comment: A professor cannot give more than one lecture or seminar at a given time.
Coordination Mechanisms , last:. These include: | Comment: A room cannot be allocated to more than one seminar or lecture at a given time.
Coordination Mechanisms , last:. These include: | Comment: Only a certain number of students can be placed in a room depending on its size.
Coordination Mechanisms ,  | Comment: Other coordinating mechanisms that are employed by groups working together are rules and conventions. These can be formal or informal. Formal rules, like the compulsory attendance of seminars, writing of monthly reports, and filling in of timesheets, enable organizations to maintain order and keep track of what its members are doing. Conventions, like keeping quiet in a library or removing meal trays after finishing eating in a cafeteria, are a form of courtesy to others.
Coordination Mechanisms , last:. These include: | Comment: Shared External Representations
Coordination Mechanisms ,  | Comment: Shared external representations are commonly used to coordinate people. We have already mentioned one example, that of shared calendars that appear on users' monitors as graphical charts, email reminders, and dialog boxes. Other kinds that are commonly used include forms, checklists, and tables. These are presented on public noticeboards or as part of other shared spaces. They can also be attached to documents and folders. They function by providing external information on who is working on what, when, where, when a piece of work is supposed to be finished, and to whom it goes next. For example, a shared table of who has completed the checking of files for a design project (see Figure 4.11)  provides the necessary information from which other members of the group can at a glance update their model of that project's progress. Importantly, such external representations can be readily updated by annotating. If a project is going to take longer than planned, this can be indicated on a chart or table by extending the line representing it, allowing others to see the change when they pass by and glance up at the whiteboard.
Coordination Mechanisms ,  | Comment: Figure 4.11: An external representation used to coordinate collaborative work in the form of a printout table showing who has completed the checking of files and who is down to do what
Coordination Mechanisms ,  | Comment: Shared externalizations allow people to make various inferences about the changes or delays with respect to their effect on their current activities. Accordingly, they may need to reschedule their work and annotate the shared workplan. In so doing, these kinds of coordination mechanisms are considered to be tangible, providing important representations of work and responsibility that can be changed and updated as and when needed.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. These include: | 4.2.4 Designing Collaborative Technologies to Support Coordination
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Group calendars, electronic schedulers, project management tools, and workflow tools that provide interactive forms of scheduling and planning are some of the main kinds of collaborative technologies that have been developed to support coordination. A specific mechanism that has been implemented is the use of conventions. For example, an early shared workspace system developed in Germany (called POLITeam), that supported email and document sharing to allow politicians to work together at different sites, introduced a range of conventions, such as how folders and files should be organized in the shared workspace. Interestingly, when the system was used in practice, it was found that the conventions were often violated (Mark et al., 1997). For example, one convention that was set up was that users should always type in the code of a file when they were using it. In practice, very few people did this, as pointed out by an administrator: "They don't type in the right code. I must correct them. I must sort the documents into the right archive. And that's annoying."
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | The tendency of people not to follow conventions can be due to a number of reasons. If following conventions requires additional work that is extraneous to the users' ongoing work, they may find it gets in the way. They may also perceive the convention as an unnecessary burden and ?eforget?f to follow it all the time. Such ?eproductive laziness?f is quite common. A simple analogy to everyday life is forgetting to put the top back on the toothpaste tube: it is a very simple convention to follow and yet we are all guilty sometimes (or even all the time) of not doing this. While such actions may only take a tiny bit of effort, people often don't do them because they perceive them as tedious and unnecessary. However, the consequence of not doing them can be very annoying to others and make the system much less efficient and workable.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | When designing coordination mechanisms it is important to consider how socially acceptable they are to people. Failure to do so can result in the users not using the system in the way intended or simply abandoning it. Getting the right balance between human coordination and system coordination is important. Too much system control and the users will rebel; too little control and the system breaks down. Consider the example of file locking, which is a form of concurrency control. This is used by most shared applications, e.g. file-sharing systems to prevent users from clashing when trying to work on the same part of a shared document or file at the same time. With file locking, whenever someone is working on a file or part of it, it becomes inaccessible to others. Information about who is using the file and for how long may be made available to the other users, to show why they can't work on a particular file. When file-locking mechanisms are used in this way, however, they are often considered too rigid as a form of coordination, primarily because they don't let other users negotiate with the first user about when they can have access to the locked file.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | A more flexible form of coordination is to include a social policy of floor control. Whenever a user wants to work on a shared document or file, he must initially request ?ethe floor.?f If no one else is using the specified section or file at that time, then he is given the floor. That part of the document or file then becomes locked, preventing others from having access to it. If other users want access to the file, they likewise make a request for the floor. The current user is then notified and can then let the requester know how long the file will be in use. If not acceptable, the requester can try to negotiate a time for access to the file. This kind of coordination mechanism, therefore, provides more scope for negotiation between users on how to collaborate, rather than simply receiving a point-blank ?epermission denied?f response from the system when a file is being used by someone else.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. These include: | Box 4.4: Turning technology inside out: online versus physical coordination mechanisms
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Many software applications now exist to support coordination, notably project management systems. From the project manager's perspective, they provide a flexible means of scheduling, distributing, and monitoring collaborative work and enabling them continuously to remind people of deadlines and milestones via the use of email and other kinds of representations. From the perspective of the individuals working in the company, they give them a means of letting others know when they are available for meetings and where they will be.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | In practice, however, project management systems that rely exclusively on computermediated coordination mechanisms have not been found to be as effective as hoped. This tends to happen when the system is used to coordinate a large number of events or projects. People begin not to take notice of the numerous internal reminders and messages that are sent to them by the system, finding them to be too intrusive, overwhelming, or annoying. This can then lead to missing important meetings and deadlines. A work-around in some organizations has been to print out the schedules and events that have been entered into the project management online database and display them as paper-based external representations (see Whittaker and Schwartz, 1995). A study that looked at the creation and use of
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | shared external representations in collaborative work (Bellotti and Rogers, 1997) found that in several cases, information that is represented online becomes re-represented as a physical entity because the online version often gets lost, forgotten, or overlooked. This was particularly prevalent at new media companies producing web content that needed to be updated regularly. The various groups had to be coordinated across a number of parallelrunning, time-critical projects.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | At one site, a project coordinator would write up on a physical whiteboard every morning the main projects, schedules, and deadlines relevant for that day fed from the online project management software. When asked why she laboriously wrote down by hand information that could be readily accessed by everyone over the computer network, she replied that, owing to the multiplication of projects and people working on them, it had become very difficult to keep track of everything that was going on. Moreover, people had become desensitized to the many email reminders that the software application provided, so they often forgot their significance immediately after having acknowledged them. Consequently, everyone ( including herself) needed to be reminded of what was urgent and what needed dealing with that day. Placing this critical information on a physical whiteboard in a prominent public place that was clearly distinct from the continuous stream of other online information and messages provided a more effective public reminder of what was urgent and needed doing that day. In essence, the company had resorted to ?eturning the technology inside out?f.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Why are whiteboards so useful for coordinating projects? How might electronic whiteboards be designed to extend this practice?
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. These include: | Comment
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: Physical whiteboards are very good as coordinating tools as they display information that is external and public, making it highly visible for everyone to see. Furthermore, the information can be easily annotated to show up-to-date modifications to a schedule. Whiteboards also have a gravitational force, drawing people to them. They provide a meeting place for people to discuss and catch up with latest developments.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Comment: Electronic whiteboards have the added advantage that important information can be animated to make it stand out. Important information can also be displayed on multiple displays throughout a building and can be fed from existing databases and software, thereby making the project coordinator's work much easier. The boards could also be used to support on-the-fly meetings in which individuals could use electronic pens to sketch out ideas that could then be stored electronically. In such settings they could also be interacted with via wireless handheld computers, allowing information to be ?escraped?f off or ?esquirted?f onto the whiteboard.
Awareness Mechanisms , last:. These include: | 4.2.5 Awareness Mechanisms
Awareness Mechanisms ,  | Awareness involves knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom (Dourish and Bly, 1992). For example, when we are at a party, we move around the physical space, observing what is going on and who is talking to whom, eavesdropping on others' conversations and passing on gossip to others. A specific kind of awareness is peripheral awareness. This refers to a person's ability to maintain and constantly update a sense of what is going on in the physical and social context, through keeping an eye on what is happening in the periphery of their vision. This might include noting whether people are in a good or bad mood by the way they are talking, how fast the drink and food is being consumed, who has entered or left the room, how long someone has been absent, and whether the lonely guy in the corner is finally talking to someone?all while we are having a conversation with someone else. The combination of direct observations and peripheral monitoring keeps people informed and updated on what is happening in the world.
Awareness Mechanisms ,  | Similar ways of becoming aware and keeping aware take place in other contexts, such as a place of study, at work, or school. Importantly, this requires fathoming when it is an appropriate time to interact with others to get and pass information on. Seeing a professor slam the office door signals to students that this is definitely not a good time to ask for an extension on an assignment deadline. Conversely, seeing teachers with beaming faces, chatting openly to other students suggests they are in a good mood and therefore this would be a good time to ask them if it would be all right to miss next week's seminar because of an important family engagement. The knowledge that someone is approachable or not rapidly spreads through a company, school, or other institution. People are very eager to pass on both good and bad news to others and will go out of their way to gossip, loitering in corridors, hanging around at the photocopier and coffee machine ?espreading the word.?f
Awareness Mechanisms ,  | In addition to monitoring the behavior of others, people will organize their work and physical environment to enable it to be successfully monitored by others. This ranges from the use of subtle cues to more blatant ones. An example of a subtle cue is when someone leaves their dorm or office door slightly ajar to indicate that they can be approached. A more blatant one is the complete closing of their door together with a ?edo not disturb?f notice prominently on it, signaling to everyone that under no circumstances should they be disturbed (see Figure 4.12).
Awareness Mechanisms , last:. These include: | Figure 4.12: An external representation used to signal to others a person's availability
Awareness Mechanisms , last:. These include: | Overhearing and Overseeing
Awareness Mechanisms ,  | Overhearing and Overseeing: People who work closely together also develop various strategies for coordinating their work, based on an up-to-date awareness of what the others are doing. This is especially so for interdependent tasks, where the outcome of one person's activity is needed for others to be able to carry out their tasks. For example, when putting on a show, the performers will constantly monitor what one another is doing in order to coordinate their performance efficiently. The metaphorical expression ?eclosely-knit teams?f exemplifies this way of collaborating. People become highly skilled in reading and tracking what others are doing and the information they are attending to. A well-known study of this phenomenon is described by Christian Heath and Paul Luff (1992), who looked at how two controllers worked together in a control room in the London Underground. An overriding observation was that the actions of one controller were tied very closely to what the other was doing. One of the controllers was responsible for the movement of trains on the line (controller A), while the other was responsible for providing information to passengers about the current service (controller B). In many instances, it was found that controller B overheard what controller A was doing and saying, and acted accordingly?even though controller A had not said anything explicitly to him. For example, on overhearing controller A discussing a problem with a train driver over the in-cab intercom system, controller B inferred from the ensuing conversation that there was going to be a disruption to the service and so started announcing this to the passengers on the platform before controller A had even finished talking with the train driver. At other times, the two controllers keep a lookout for each other, monitoring the environment for actions and events which they might have not noticed but may be important for them to know about so that they can act appropriately.
Awareness Mechanisms , last:. These include: | Overhearing and Overseeing: Activity 4.8
Awareness Mechanisms ,  | Activity 4.8: What do you think happens when one person of a closely-knit team does not see or hear something or misunderstands what has been said, while the others in the group assume they have seen, heard, or understood what has been said?
Awareness Mechanisms , last:. These include: | Activity 4.8: Comment
Awareness Mechanisms ,  | Comment: In such circumstances, the person is likely to carry on as normal. In some cases this will result in inappropriate behavior. Repair mechanisms will then need to be set in motion. The knowledgeable participants may notice that the other person has not acted in the manner expected. They may then use one of a number of subtle repair mechanisms, say coughing or glancing at something that needs attending to. If this doesn't work, they may then resort to explicitly stating aloud what had previously been signaled implicitly. Conversely, the unaware participant may wonder why the event hasn't happened and, likewise, look over at the other people, cough to get their attention, or explicitly ask them a question. The kind of repair mechanism employed at a given moment will depend on a number of factors, including the relationship among the participants, e.g. whether one is more senior than the others?this determines who can ask what, the perceived fault or responsibility for the breakdown, and the severity of the outcome of not acting there and then on the new information.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. These include: | 4.2.6 Designing Collaborative Technologies to Support Awareness
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | The various observations about awareness have led system developers to consider how best to provide awareness information for people who need to work together but who are not in the same physical space. Various technologies have been employed, along with the design of specific applications to convey information about what people are doing and the progress of their ongoing work. As mentioned previously, media spaces and audio?video links have been developed to enable remote colleagues to keep in touch with one another. Some of these systems have also been developed to provide awareness information about remote partners, allowing them to find out what one another is doing. One of the earliest systems was Portholes, developed at Xerox PARC research labs (Dourish and Bly, 1992). The system presented regularly-updated digitized video images of people in their offices from a number of different locations (in the USA and UK). These were shown in a matrix display on people's workstations. Clicking on one of the images had the effect of bringing up a dialog box providing further information about that individual, e.g. name, phone number together with a set of lightweight action buttons, e.g. email the person, listen to a prerecorded audio snippet. The system provided changing images of people throughout the day and night in their offices, letting others see at a glance whether they were in their offices, what they were working on, and who was around (see Figure 4.13) . Informal evaluation of the set-up suggested that having access to such information led to a shared sense of community.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Figure 4.13: A screen dump of Portholes, showing low resolution monochrome images from offices in the US and UK PARC sites
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | The emphasis in the design of these early awareness systems was largely on supporting peripheral monitoring, allowing people to see each other and their progress. Dourish and Bellotti (1992) refer to this as shared feedback. More recent distributed awareness systems provide a different kind of awareness information. Rather than place the onus on participants to find out about each other, they have been designed to allow users to notify each other about specific kinds of events. Thus, there is less emphasis on monitoring and being monitored and more on explicitly letting others know about things. Notification mechanisms are also used to provide information about the status of shared objects and the progress of collaborative tasks.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Hence, there has been a shift towards supporting a collective ?estream of consciousness?f that people can attend to when they want and likewise provide information for whom they want. An example is Elvin, which is a distributed awareness system that provides a range of client services (Segall and Arnold, 1997) . It includes Tickertape, a lightweight messaging system, that shows small color-coded messages scrolling from right to left across a user's screen, together with virtual presence windows, indicating who is online or offline and for how long (see Figure 4.14) . This and other Internet instant messaging systems provide a number of functions, including a chat and local organizing tool for shared events, e.g. lunch dates, and announcements, e.g. a party, and an ?ealways-on?f communication tool for people working together on projects but who are not physically collocated.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. These include: | Figure 4.14: Sticker tickertape interface, showing ticker scroller and virtual presence window.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. These include: | Sticker is a newer version of Elvin tickertape
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | In addition to presenting awareness information as streaming text messages, more abstract forms of representation have been used. For example, a communication tool called Babble, developed at IBM by David Smith (Erickson et al., 1999), provides a dynamic visualization of the participants in an ongoing chat-like conversation. A large 2D circle called a cookie is depicted with colored marbles on each user's monitor. Marbles inside the cookie convey those individuals active in the current conversation. Marbles outside the cookie convey users involved in other conversations. The more active a participant is in the conversation, the more the corresponding marble is moved towards the center of the cookie. Conversely, the less engaged a person is in the ongoing conversation, the more the marble moves towards the periphery of the cookie (see Figure 4.15) . Similarly, Loops, its successor, uses an abstract dynamic representation to convey the participants' activity in a web-based persistent chat system (Halverson et al., 2003).
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. These include: | Figure 4.15: The Babble interface
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. These include: | Use of content on this site is subject to the restrictions set forth in the Terms of Use.
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Page Layout and Design c2015 Skillsoft Ireland Limited - All rights reserved, individual content is owned by respective copyright holder.
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. These include: | Feedback | Privacy and Cookie Policy (Updated 12/2014) | v.4.0.78.153
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. These include: | Chapter 3 - Understanding Users
Designing Collaborative Technologi ,  | Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction, Second Edition by  Helen Sharp, Yvonne Rogers and Jenny Preece
Designing Collaborative Technologi , last:. These include: | John Wiley & Sons c 2007 Citation Recommend?
Cognitive Frameworks , last:. These include: | 3.3 Cognitive Frameworks
Cognitive Frameworks ,  | A number of conceptual frameworks have been developed to explain and predict user behavior based on theories of cognition. In this section, we outline the influential ones that have been developed for interaction design, which are: mental models
Cognitive Frameworks , last:. These include: | theory of action information processing external cognition distributed cognition.
Mental Models , last:. These include: | 3.3.1 Mental Models
Mental Models ,  | In Chapter 2 we pointed out that a successful system is one based on a conceptual model that enables users to readily learn a system and use it effectively. People primarily develop knowledge of how to interact with a system and, to a lesser extent, how that system works.
Mental Models , last:. These include: | These two kinds of knowledge are often referred to as a user's mental model.
Mental Models ,  | It is assumed that mental models are used by people to reason about a system, and in particular, to try to fathom out what to do when something unexpected happens with the system or when encountering unfamiliar systems. The more someone learns about a system and how it functions, the more their mental model develops. For example, TV engineers have a ?edeep?f mental model of how TVs work that allows them to work out how to fix them. In contrast, an average citizen is likely to have a reasonably good mental model of how to operate a TV but a ?eshallow?f mental model of how it works. Within cognitive psychology, mental models have been postulated as internal constructions of some aspect of the external world that are manipulated, enabling predictions and inferences to be made (Craik, 1943). This process is thought to involve the ?efleshing out?f and the ?erunning?f of a mental model (Johnson-Laird, 1983). This can involve both unconscious and conscious mental processes, where images and analogies are activated.
Mental Models , last:. These include: | Activity 3.5
Mental Models ,  | Activity 3.5: To illustrate how we use mental models in our everyday reasoning, imagine the following two scenarios:
Mental Models , 1.	You arrive home from a holiday on a cold winter's night to a cold house. You have a small baby and you need to get the house warm as quickly as possible. Your house is centrally heated. Do you set the thermostat as high as possible or turn it to the desired temperature, e.g. 70?? F? | 1.	You arrive home from a holiday on a cold winter's night to a cold house. You have a small baby and you need to get the house warm as quickly as possible. Your house is centrally heated. Do you set the thermostat as high as possible or turn it to the desired temperature, e.g. 70?? F?
Mental Models , 2.	You arrive home from being out all night starving hungry. You look in the fridge and find all that is left is an uncooked pizza. The instructions on the packet say heat the oven to 375?? F and then place the pizza in the oven for 20 minutes. Your oven is electric. How do you heat it up? Do you turn it to the specified temperature or higher? | 2.	You arrive home from being out all night starving hungry. You look in the fridge and find all that is left is an uncooked pizza. The instructions on the packet say heat the oven to 375?? F and then place the pizza in the oven for 20 minutes. Your oven is electric. How do you heat it up? Do you turn it to the specified temperature or higher?
Mental Models , 2.	You arrive home from being out all night starving hungry. You look in the fridge and find all that is left is an uncooked pizza. The instructions on the packet say heat the oven to 375?? F and then place the pizza in the oven for 20 minutes. Your oven is electric. How do you heat it up? Do you turn it to the specified temperature or higher?last:. These include: | Comment
Mental Models , 2.	You arrive home from being out all night starving hungry. You look in the fridge and find all that is left is an uncooked pizza. The instructions on the packet say heat the oven to 375?? F and then place the pizza in the oven for 20 minutes. Your oven is electric. How do you heat it up? Do you turn it to the specified temperature or higher? | Comment: Most people when asked the first question imagine the scenario in terms of what they would do in their own house and choose the first option. A typical explanation is that setting the temperature to be as high as possible increases the rate at which the room warms up. While many people may believe this, it is incorrect. Thermostats work by switching on the heat and keeping it going at a constant speed until the desired temperature set is reached, at which point they cut out. They cannot control the rate at which heat is given out from a heating system. Left at a given setting, thermostats will turn the heat on and off as necessary to maintain the desired temperature.
Mental Models , 2.	You arrive home from being out all night starving hungry. You look in the fridge and find all that is left is an uncooked pizza. The instructions on the packet say heat the oven to 375?? F and then place the pizza in the oven for 20 minutes. Your oven is electric. How do you heat it up? Do you turn it to the specified temperature or higher? | Comment: When asked the second question, most people say they would turn the oven to the specified temperature and put the pizza in when they think it is at the desired temperature. Some people answer that they would turn the oven to a higher temperature in order to warm it up more quickly. Electric ovens work on the same principle as central heating, and so turning the heat up higher will not warm it up any quicker. There is also the problem of the pizza burning if the oven is too hot!
Mental Models , 2.	You arrive home from being out all night starving hungry. You look in the fridge and find all that is left is an uncooked pizza. The instructions on the packet say heat the oven to 375?? F and then place the pizza in the oven for 20 minutes. Your oven is electric. How do you heat it up? Do you turn it to the specified temperature or higher? | Comment: Why do people use erroneous mental models? It seems that in the above scenarios, they are running a mental model based on a general valve theory of the way something works (Kempton, 1986). This assumes the underlying principle of ?emore is more:?f the more you turn or push something the more it causes the desired effect. This principle holds for a range of physical devices, such as faucets and radio controls, where the more you turn them the more water or volume is given. However, it does not hold for thermostats, which instead function based on the principle of an on?off switch. What seems to happen is that in everyday life people develop a core set of abstractions about how things work, and apply these to a range of devices, irrespective of whether they are appropriate.
Mental Models , 2.	You arrive home from being out all night starving hungry. You look in the fridge and find all that is left is an uncooked pizza. The instructions on the packet say heat the oven to 375?? F and then place the pizza in the oven for 20 minutes. Your oven is electric. How do you heat it up? Do you turn it to the specified temperature or higher? | Comment: Using incorrect mental models to guide behavior is surprisingly common. Just watch people at a pedestrian crossing or waiting for an elevator. How many times do they press the button? A lot of people will press it at least twice. When asked why a common reason given is that they think it will make the lights change faster or ensure the elevator arrives. This seems to be another example of following the ?emore is more?f philosophy: it is believed that the more times you press the button the more likely it is to result in the desired effect.
Mental Models , 2.	You arrive home from being out all night starving hungry. You look in the fridge and find all that is left is an uncooked pizza. The instructions on the packet say heat the oven to 375?? F and then place the pizza in the oven for 20 minutes. Your oven is electric. How do you heat it up? Do you turn it to the specified temperature or higher? | Comment: Many people's understanding of how computer-based technologies and services, e.g. the Internet, wireless networking, broadband, search engines, viruses, work is poor. Their mental models are often incomplete, easily confusable, based on inappropriate analogies, and superstition (Norman, 1983). As a consequence, they find it difficult to identify, describe, or solve a problem, and lack the words or concepts to explain what is happening.
Mental Models , 2.	You arrive home from being out all night starving hungry. You look in the fridge and find all that is left is an uncooked pizza. The instructions on the packet say heat the oven to 375?? F and then place the pizza in the oven for 20 minutes. Your oven is electric. How do you heat it up? Do you turn it to the specified temperature or higher? | Comment: If people could develop better mental models of interactive systems they would be in a better position to know how to carry out their tasks efficiently, and know what to do if a system started malfunctioning. Ideally, they should be able to develop a mental model that matches the conceptual model. But to what extent is this realistic given that most people are resistant to spending much time learning about how things work, especially if it involves reading manuals or other documentation? Alternatively, if interactive technologies could be designed to be more transparent, then it might be easier to understand them in terms of how they work and what to do when they don't. Transparency includes:
Mental Models , 2.	You arrive home from being out all night starving hungry. You look in the fridge and find all that is left is an uncooked pizza. The instructions on the packet say heat the oven to 375?? F and then place the pizza in the oven for 20 minutes. Your oven is electric. How do you heat it up? Do you turn it to the specified temperature or higher? | Comment: useful feedback in response to user input easy-to-understand and intuitive ways of interacting with the system.
Mental Models , 2.	You arrive home from being out all night starving hungry. You look in the fridge and find all that is left is an uncooked pizza. The instructions on the packet say heat the oven to 375?? F and then place the pizza in the oven for 20 minutes. Your oven is electric. How do you heat it up? Do you turn it to the specified temperature or higher? | Comment: In addition, it requires providing the right kind and level of information, in the form of clear and easy-to-follow instructions appropriate online help and tutorials
Mental Models , 2.	You arrive home from being out all night starving hungry. You look in the fridge and find all that is left is an uncooked pizza. The instructions on the packet say heat the oven to 375?? F and then place the pizza in the oven for 20 minutes. Your oven is electric. How do you heat it up? Do you turn it to the specified temperature or higher? | Comment: context-sensitive guidance for users, set at their level of experience, explaining how to proceed when they are not sure what to do at a given stage of a task.
Mental Models , 2.	You arrive home from being out all night starving hungry. You look in the fridge and find all that is left is an uncooked pizza. The instructions on the packet say heat the oven to 375?? F and then place the pizza in the oven for 20 minutes. Your oven is electric. How do you heat it up? Do you turn it to the specified temperature or higher?last:. Transparency includes: | Comment: Dilemma: How much transparency?
Mental Models , 2.	You arrive home from being out all night starving hungry. You look in the fridge and find all that is left is an uncooked pizza. The instructions on the packet say heat the oven to 375?? F and then place the pizza in the oven for 20 minutes. Your oven is electric. How do you heat it up? Do you turn it to the specified temperature or higher? | Comment: How much and what kind of transparency do you think a designer should provide in an interactive product? This is not a straightforward question to answer and depends a lot on the requirements of the targeted user groups. Some users simply want to get on with their tasks and don't want to have to learn about how the thing they are using works. In this situation, the system should be designed to make it obvious what to do and how to use it.
Mental Models , 2.	You arrive home from being out all night starving hungry. You look in the fridge and find all that is left is an uncooked pizza. The instructions on the packet say heat the oven to 375?? F and then place the pizza in the oven for 20 minutes. Your oven is electric. How do you heat it up? Do you turn it to the specified temperature or higher? | Comment: For example, most cell phone users want a simple ?eplug-and-play?f type interface, where it is straightforward to carry out functions like saving an address, text messaging, and making a call. Functions that are difficult to learn can be off-putting. Users simply won't bother to make the extra effort, meaning that many of the functions provided are never used. Other users like to understand how the device they are using works in order to make informed decisions about how to carry out their tasks, especially if there are numerous ways of doing something. Some search engines have been designed with this in mind: they provide background information on how they work and how to improve one's searching techniques (see Figure 3.8).
Mental Models , 2.	You arrive home from being out all night starving hungry. You look in the fridge and find all that is left is an uncooked pizza. The instructions on the packet say heat the oven to 375?? F and then place the pizza in the oven for 20 minutes. Your oven is electric. How do you heat it up? Do you turn it to the specified temperature or higher? | Comment: Figure 3.8: The Google help center which provides extensive information about how to make your searching strategy more effective
Theory of Action , last:. Transparency includes: | 3.3.2 Theory of Action
Theory of Action ,  | Another way of conceptualizing how users interact with interactive products is in terms of their goals and what they need to do to achieve them. Norman's (1986) theory of action specifies what users do at the interface in terms of seven stages of an activity:
Theory of Action , last:. Norman's (1986) theory of action specifies what users do at the interface in terms of seven stages of an activity: | Establish a goal.
Theory of Action , last:. Norman's (1986) theory of action specifies what users do at the interface in terms of seven stages of an activity: | Establish a goal.: Form an intention.
Theory of Action , last:. Norman's (1986) theory of action specifies what users do at the interface in terms of seven stages of an activity: | Form an intention.: Specify an action sequence.
Theory of Action , last:. Norman's (1986) theory of action specifies what users do at the interface in terms of seven stages of an activity: | Specify an action sequence.: Execute an action.
Theory of Action , last:. Norman's (1986) theory of action specifies what users do at the interface in terms of seven stages of an activity: | Execute an action.: Perceive the system state.
Theory of Action , last:. Norman's (1986) theory of action specifies what users do at the interface in terms of seven stages of an activity: | Perceive the system state.: Interpret the state.
Theory of Action , last:. Norman's (1986) theory of action specifies what users do at the interface in terms of seven stages of an activity: | Interpret the state.: Evaluate the system state with respect to the goals and intentions.
Theory of Action ,  | Interpret the state.: The theory proposes that the stages take place sequentially. To illustrate how these are cycled through, consider the task of finding out about the latest news for the day. First, the user sets a goal to find out about the latest news via a news website. Next, it involves forming an intention, e.g. check out the BBC website, then specifying what to do, e.g. move cursor to link on browser), followed by executing that action sequence, e.g. move mouse, click on mouse button. To assess the outcome of the action and whether it meets the user's goal involves perceiving what has happened at the interface, e.g. seeing a new page pop up on the screen, interpreting it, e.g. reading that it is the BBC newsite, and then evaluating it with respect to the goal, e.g. now able to read the latest news.
Theory of Action ,  | Interpret the state.: In reality, however, human activity does not proceed in such an orderly and sequential manner. It is more often the case that some stages are missed, others repeated, while others appear out of order.
Theory of Action ,  | Interpret the state.: Furthermore, many users do not have a clear goal in mind but react to what appears on the screen, such as when they are browsing the web or revisiting emails. It must be stressed, therefore, that the theory is only meant as an approximation of what happens and has been deliberately simplified. It is intended to help designers and researchers think about how best to design interfaces to enable users to monitor their actions with respect to their goals in terms of the various stages of action.
Theory of Action ,  | Interpret the state.: At a general level, it suggests the importance of providing feedback about the system state so that users can check to see whether their goals and intentions have been met. An example is the use of visual reminders, which can be designed to support the different stages of action. Dialog boxes can trigger the generation of intentions by reminding users of what is possible. Menus can aid the stages of intention formation and action specification through allowing users to browse, scan, and point at an option. Feedback, such as the different cursor icons used at an interface, inform users that an operation is currently being executed.
Theory of Action ,  | Interpret the state.: It is important to note that while interaction styles can be specifically geared towards certain action stages, they may do so at the expense of others. For example, while menus are good at helping users form intentions, they can also distract them by providing a range of choices that can lead them astray from their initial intentions. How many times have you changed your mind about what you planned to do based on what catches your eye when browsing a set of menu options or hyperlinks on a website? And, how often have you been tempted to add features like sounds, animations, colors, and fancy backgrounds to a Powerpoint presentation because you happen upon them in the menu options?even though they were not part of your original intention to create a set of slides for a talk? Such reaction-based actions are common, especially for GUI-based interfaces.
Theory of Action ,  | Interpret the state.: Related to the theory of action is the gulf of execution and the gulf of evaluation (Norman, 1986; Hutchins et al., 1986). The ?egulfs?f explicate the gaps that exist between the user and the interface and point to how to design the latter to enable the user to cope with them. The first one?the gulf of execution?describes the distance from the user to the physical system while the second one?the gulf of evaluation?is the distance from the physical system to the user (see Figure 3.9) . Norman and his colleagues suggest that designers and users need to concern themselves with how to bridge the gulfs in order to reduce the cognitive effort required to perform a task. This can be achieved, on the one hand, by designing usable interfaces that match the psychological characteristics of the user, e.g. taking into account their memory limitations, and, on the other hand, by the user learning to create goals, plans, and action sequences that fit with how the interface works.
Theory of Action , last:. Norman's (1986) theory of action specifies what users do at the interface in terms of seven stages of an activity: | Interpret the state.: Figure 3.9: Bridging the gulfs of execution and evaluation
Theory of Action ,  | Interpret the state.: Over the last two decades, the gulfs have had considerable impact on how researchers conceptualize and design new interfaces and tools. Lieberman and Fry (1995) used the concepts to directly inform the design of a debugging environment, called ZStep 94, intended to help programmers overcome the gulfs of execution and evaluation when translating their intentions of how a program should be written with their actual coding. Instead of having to imagine how a piece of code will work over time, graphical tools were provided at the interface that dynamically visualized the process for the programmer (see Figure 3.10) . In so doing, the gulf of execution is reduced, requiring much less cognitive effort by the programmer. Nowadays, such debugging tools are commonplace.
Theory of Action ,  | Interpret the state.: Figure 3.10: ZStep 94: an early debugging tool that visualized code over time, inspired by the concepts of the gulf of execution and evaluation (Lieberman and Fry, 1995)
Theory of Action ,  | Interpret the state.: New conceptual frameworks have also been spawned. Quintana et al. (2000) have used the gulfs as the basis of their learner-centered design (LCD) approach, that has been influential in informing the design of educational applications. They stress the need to bridge the ?egulf of expertise?f between a learner and the domain they are learning about. Bellotti et al. (2002) have also used it as the basis of their ?emaking sense?f framework that addresses the new challenges facing designers when developing ubiquitous computing systems.
Information Processing , last:. Norman's (1986) theory of action specifies what users do at the interface in terms of seven stages of an activity: | 3.3.3 Information Processing
Information Processing ,  | Another approach to conceptualizing how the mind works has been to use metaphors and analogies. A number of comparisons have been made, including conceptualizing the mind as a reservoir, a telephone network, and a digital computer. One prevalent metaphor from cognitive psychology is the idea that the mind is an information processor. Information is thought to enter and exit the mind through a series of ordered processing stages (see Figure
. Within these stages, various pro ,  | 3.11) . Within these stages, various processes are assumed to act upon mental representations. Processes include comparing and matching. Mental representations are assumed to comprise images, mental models, rules, and other forms of knowledge.
. Within these stages, various pro , last:. Norman's (1986) theory of action specifies what users do at the interface in terms of seven stages of an activity: | Figure 3.11: Human information processing model
. Within these stages, various pro ,  | The information processing model provides a basis from which to make predictions about human performance. Hypotheses can be made about how long someone will take to perceive and respond to a stimulus (also known as reaction time) and what bottlenecks occur if a person is overloaded with too much information. A classic approach is the human processor model, which models the cognitive processes of a user interacting with a computer (Card et al., 1983). Based on the information processing model, cognition is conceptualized as a series of processing stages, where perceptual, cognitive, and motor processors are organized in relation to one another (see Figure 3.12) . The model predicts which cognitive processes are involved when a user interacts with a computer, enabling calculations to be made of how long a user will take to carry out various tasks. This can be useful when comparing different interfaces. For example, it has been used to compare how well different wordprocessors support a range of editing tasks (see Section 15.4).
. Within these stages, various pro , last:. Norman's (1986) theory of action specifies what users do at the interface in terms of seven stages of an activity: | Figure 3.12: The human processor model
. Within these stages, various pro ,  | The information processing approach is based on modeling mental activities that happen exclusively inside the head. However, most cognitive activities involve people interacting with external kinds of representations, like books, documents, and computers?not to mention one another. For example, when we go home from wherever we have been we do not need to remember the details of the route because we rely on cues in the environment,
. Within these stages, various pro ,  | e.g. we know to turn left at the red house, right when the road comes to a T-junction, and so on. Similarly, when we are at home we do not have to remember where everything is because information is ?eout there.?f We decide what to eat and drink by scanning the items in the fridge, find out whether any messages have been left by glancing at the answering machine to see if there is a flashing light, and so on. To what extent, therefore, can we say that information processing models are truly representative of everyday cognitive activities? Moreover, do they adequately account for how people interact with computers and other devices?
. Within these stages, various pro ,  | Several researchers have argued that existing information processing approaches are too impoverished:
. Within these stages, various pro ,  | The traditional approach to the study of cognition is to look at the pure intellect, isolated from distractions and from artificial aids. Experiments are performed in closed, isolated rooms, with a minimum of distracting lights or sounds, no other people to assist with the task, and no aids to memory or thought. The tasks are arbitrary ones, invented by the researcher. Model builders build simulations and descriptions of these isolated situations. The theoretical analyses are self-contained little structures, isolated from the world, isolated from any other knowledge or abilities of the person. (Norman, 1990, p. 5)
. Within these stages, various pro ,  | Instead, there has been an increasing trend to study cognitive activities in the context in which they occur, analyzing cognition as it happens "in the wild" (Hutchins, 1995). A central goal has been to look at how structures in the environment can both aid human cognition and reduce cognitive load. Two approaches that have adopted this approach are ?eexternal?f and ?edistributed?f cognition, which we now turn our attention to.
External Cognition , last:. Norman's (1986) theory of action specifies what users do at the interface in terms of seven stages of an activity: | 3.3.4 External Cognition
External Cognition ,  | People interact with or create information through using a variety of external representations, e.g. books, multimedia, newspapers, web pages, maps, diagrams, notes, drawings, and so on. Furthermore, an impressive range of tools have been developed throughout history to aid cognition, including pens, calculators, and computer-based technologies. The combination of external representations and physical tools has greatly extended and supported people's ability to carry out cognitive activities (Norman, 1993). Indeed, they are such an integral part that it is difficult to imagine how we would go about much of our everyday life without them.
External Cognition ,  | External cognition is concerned with explaining the cognitive processes involved when we interact with different external representations (Scaife and Rogers, 1996). A main goal is to explicate the cognitive benefits of using different representations for different cognitive activities and the processes involved. The main ones include:
External Cognition , 1.	Externalizing to reduce memory load.last:. The main ones include: | 1.	Externalizing to reduce memory load.
External Cognition , 2.	Computational offloading.last:. The main ones include: | 2.	Computational offloading.
External Cognition , 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracing.last:. The main ones include: | 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracing.
External Cognition , 1. Externalizing to reduce memory loadlast:. The main ones include: | 1. Externalizing to reduce memory load
External Cognition , 1. Externalizing to reduce memory load | A number of strategies have been developed for transforming knowledge into external representations to reduce memory load. One such strategy is externalizing things we find difficult to remember, such as birthdays, appointments, and addresses. Diaries, personal reminders, and calendars are examples of cognitive artifacts that are commonly used for this purpose, acting as external reminders of what we need to do at a given time, e.g. buy a card for a relative's birthday.
External Cognition , 1. Externalizing to reduce memory load | Other kinds of external representations that people frequently employ are notes, like post-it notes, shopping lists, and to-do lists. Where these are placed in the environment can also be crucial. For example, people often place post-it notes in prominent positions, such as on walls, on the side of computer monitors, by the front door, and sometimes even on their hands, in a deliberate attempt to ensure they do remind them of what needs to be done or remembered. People also place things in piles in their offices and by the front door, indicating what needs to be done urgently and what can wait for a while.
External Cognition , 1. Externalizing to reduce memory loadlast:. The main ones include: | Externalizing, therefore, can help reduce people's memory burden by:
External Cognition , 1. Externalizing to reduce memory load | reminding them to do something, e.g. get something for their mother's birthday reminding them of what to do, e.g. buy a card reminding them of when to do something, e.g. send it by a certain date.
External Cognition , 1. Externalizing to reduce memory load | A number of computer-based applications have been developed to reduce the burden on people to remember things, including web-based to-do list services, e.g. Ta-da, email, and text messaging for meetings, birthdays, etc. Specialized prosthetic devices have also been designed for people with memory problems, such as the memory aid for cooking depicted in Box 3.3.
External Cognition , 2. 	Computational offloadinglast:. The main ones include: | 2. 	Computational offloading
External Cognition , 2. 	Computational offloading | Computational offloading occurs when we use a tool or device in conjunction with an external representation to help us carry out a computation. An example is using pen and paper to solve a math problem.
External Cognition , 2. 	Computational offloadinglast:. The main ones include: | Activity 3.6
External Cognition , 1.	Multiply 2 by 3 in your head. Easy. Now try multiplying 234 by 456 in your head. Not as easy. Try doing the sum using a pen and paper. Then try again with a calculator. Why is it easier to do the calculation with pen and paper and even easier with a calculator? | 1.	Multiply 2 by 3 in your head. Easy. Now try multiplying 234 by 456 in your head. Not as easy. Try doing the sum using a pen and paper. Then try again with a calculator. Why is it easier to do the calculation with pen and paper and even easier with a calculator?
External Cognition , 2.	Try doing the same two sums using Roman numerals.last:. The main ones include: | 2.	Try doing the same two sums using Roman numerals.
External Cognition , 2.	Try doing the same two sums using Roman numerals.last:. The main ones include: | Comment
External Cognition , 1.	Carrying out the sum using pen and paper is easier than doing it in your head because you ?eoffload?f some of the computation by writing down partial results and using them to continue with the calculation. Doing the same sum with a calculator is even easier, because it requires only eight simple key presses. Even more of the computation has been offloaded onto the tool. You need only follow a simple internalized procedure (key in first number, then the multiplier sign, then next number, and finally the equals sign) and then read off the result from the external display. | 1.	Carrying out the sum using pen and paper is easier than doing it in your head because you ?eoffload?f some of the computation by writing down partial results and using them to continue with the calculation. Doing the same sum with a calculator is even easier, because it requires only eight simple key presses. Even more of the computation has been offloaded onto the tool. You need only follow a simple internalized procedure (key in first number, then the multiplier sign, then next number, and finally the equals sign) and then read off the result from the external display.
External Cognition , 2.	Using Roman numerals to do the same sum is much harder: 2 by 3 becomes II ?~ III, and 234 by 456 becomes CCXXXIIII ?~ CCC-CXXXXXVI. The first calculation may be possible to do in your head or on a bit of paper, but the second is incredibly difficult to do in your head or even on a piece of paper ( unless you are an expert in using Roman numerals or you ?echeat?f and transform it into Arabic numerals). Calculators do not have Roman numerals so it would be impossible to do on a calculator. Hence, it is much harder to perform the calculations using Roman numerals than algebraic numerals?even though the problem is equivalent in both conditions. The reason for this is that the two kinds of representation transform the task into one that is easy and one that is more difficult, respectively. The kind of tool used also can change the nature of the task to being more or less easy. | 2.	Using Roman numerals to do the same sum is much harder: 2 by 3 becomes II ?~ III, and 234 by 456 becomes CCXXXIIII ?~ CCC-CXXXXXVI. The first calculation may be possible to do in your head or on a bit of paper, but the second is incredibly difficult to do in your head or even on a piece of paper ( unless you are an expert in using Roman numerals or you ?echeat?f and transform it into Arabic numerals). Calculators do not have Roman numerals so it would be impossible to do on a calculator. Hence, it is much harder to perform the calculations using Roman numerals than algebraic numerals?even though the problem is equivalent in both conditions. The reason for this is that the two kinds of representation transform the task into one that is easy and one that is more difficult, respectively. The kind of tool used also can change the nature of the task to being more or less easy.
External Cognition , 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracinglast:. The main ones include: | 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracing
External Cognition , 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracing | Another way in which we externalize our cognition is by modifying representations to reflect changes that are taking place that we wish to mark. For example, people often cross things off in a to-do list to show that they have been completed. They may also reorder objects in the environment by creating different piles as the nature of the work to be done changes. These two kinds of modification are called annotating and cognitive tracing:
External Cognition , 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracinglast:. These two kinds of modification are called annotating and cognitive tracing: | Annotating involves modifying external representations, such as crossing off or underlining items.
External Cognition , 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracinglast:. These two kinds of modification are called annotating and cognitive tracing: | Cognitive tracing involves externally manipulating items into different orders or structures.
External Cognition , 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracing | Annotating is often used when people go shopping. People usually begin their shopping by planning what they are going to buy. This often involves looking in their cupboards and fridge to see what needs stocking up. However, many people are aware that they won't remember all this in their heads and so often externalize it as a written shopping list. The act of writing may also remind them of other items that they need to buy, which they may not have noticed when looking through the cupboards. When they actually go shopping at the store, they may cross off items on the shopping list as they are placed in the shopping basket or cart. This provides them with an annotated externalization, allowing them to see at a glance what items are still left on the list that need to be bought. Some displays, e.g. tablet PCs, large interactive displays, and PDAs, enable users to physically annotate documents, such as circling data or writing notes, using styluses or their fingertips (see Chapter 6) . The annotations can be stored with the document, enabling the users to revisit their's or other's externalizations at a later date.
External Cognition , 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracing | Cognitive tracing is useful in situations where the current state of play is in a state of flux and the person is trying to optimize their position. This typically happens when playing games, such as:
External Cognition , 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracing | In a card game the continued rearrangement of a hand of cards into suits, ascending order, or same numbers to help determine what cards to keep and which to play, as the game progresses and tactics change.
External Cognition , 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracing | In Scrabble, where shuffling around letters in the tray helps a person work out the best word given the set of letters (Maglio et al., 1999).
External Cognition , 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracing | It has also been used as an interactive function, for example, letting students know what they have studied in an online e-learning package. An interactive diagram can be used to highlight all the nodes visited, exercises completed, and units still to study.
External Cognition , 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracing | A general cognitive principle for interaction design based on the external cognition approach is to provide external representations at an interface that reduce memory load and facilitate computational offloading. Different kinds of information visualizations can be developed that reduce the amount of effort required to make inferences about a given topic, e.g. financial forecasting, identifying programming bugs. In so doing, they can extend or amplify cognition, allowing people to perceive and do activities that they couldn't do otherwise. For example, information visualizations (see Chapter 6)  represent masses of data in a visual form that can make it easier to make cross-comparisons across dimensions. GUIs are also able to reduce memory load significantly through providing external representations, e.g. Wizards, dialog boxes, that guide users through their interactions.
External Cognition , 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracinglast:. This typically happens when playing games, such as: | Box 3.5: Context-sensitive information: shopping reminders on the move
External Cognition , 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracing | Wireless communication systems that use GPS technology can provide people on the move with contextsensitive information. Information such as reminders and to-do lists can be triggered and played via a handheld device e.g. cell phone, or other technology e.g. car audio system, whenever it is deemed appropriate, relative to a person's location or specific time. An early prototype, called comMotion ( Marmasse and Schmandt, 2000), used a speech-output system to inform people of the groceries they needed to buy, such as milk, whenever they drove or cycled past a store that sold them (see Figure 3.13).
External Cognition , 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracinglast:. This typically happens when playing games, such as: | Figure 3.13: ComMotion: a context-aware reminder system
External Cognition , 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracing | How useful is this kind of externalization? Are people really that bad at remembering things? In what ways is it an improvement over other reminder techniques, such as shopping lists written on paper or lists stored on handheld devices, e.g. cell phones? Certainly, it is more difficult to look at a hand-written list while on the move compared with listening to a verbal reminder. But is this kind of external aid useful or desirable?
External Cognition , 3.	Annotating and cognitive tracing | For people who suffer from various memory disorders e.g. Alzheimers, there is clearly much potential for such context-aware reminder systems being able to assist them in their daily lives. But for others, it may result in them depending more and more on spoken or visual reminders, popping up all the time to tell them what they should be doing, when, and where. They may well be reminded to buy the milk but at what price? Losing their own ability to remember?
Distributed Cognition , last:. This typically happens when playing games, such as: | 3.3.5 Distributed Cognition
Distributed Cognition ,  | The distributed cognition approach studies the nature of cognitive phenomena across individuals, artifacts, and internal and external representations (Hutchins, 1995). Typically, it involves describing a ?ecognitive system,?f which entails interactions among people, the artifacts they use, and the environment they are working in (see Figure 3.14) . It differs from the external cognition approach in that it provides a more extensive account of the cognitive system.
Distributed Cognition , last:. This typically happens when playing games, such as: | Figure 3.14: Comparison of traditional and distributed cognition approaches
Distributed Cognition ,  | An example of a cognitive system is an airline cockpit, where a top-level goal is to fly the plane. This involves:
Distributed Cognition ,  | the pilot, co-pilot, and air traffic controller interacting with one another the pilot and co-pilot interacting with the instruments in the cockpit
Distributed Cognition ,  | the pilot and co-pilot interacting with the environment in which the plane is flying, e.g. sky, runway.
Distributed Cognition ,  | A primary objective of the distributed cognition approach is to describe these inter-actions in terms of how information is propagated through different media. By this is meant how information is represented and re-represented as it moves across individuals and through the array of artifacts that are used, e.g. maps, instrument readings, scribbles, spoken word, during activities. These transformations of information are referred to as changes in representational state.
Distributed Cognition ,  | This way of describing and analyzing a cognitive activity contrasts with other cognitive approaches, e.g. the information processing model, in that it focuses not on what is happening inside the head of an individual, but on what is happening across a system of individuals and artifacts. For example, in the cognitive system of the cockpit, a number of people and artifacts are involved in the activity of ?eflying to a higher altitude.?f The air traffic controller initially tells the co-pilot when it is safe to fly to a higher altitude. The co-pilot then alerts the pilot, who is flying the plane, by moving a knob on the instrument panel in front of them, indicating that it is now safe to fly (see Figure 3.15) . Hence, the information concerning this activity is transformed through different media (over the radio, through the co-pilot, and via a change in the position of an instrument).
Distributed Cognition ,  | Figure 3.15: A cognitive system in which information is propagated through different media A distributed cognition analysis typically involves examining:
Distributed Cognition ,  | The distributed problem-solving that takes place (including the way people work together to solve a problem).
Distributed Cognition ,  | The role of verbal and non-verbal behavior (including what is said what is implied by glances winks etc. and what is not said).
Distributed Cognition , last:.15: A cognitive system in which information is propagated through different media A distributed cognition analysis typically involves examining: | The various coordinating mechanisms that are used, e.g. rules, procedures.
Distributed Cognition , last:.15: A cognitive system in which information is propagated through different media A distributed cognition analysis typically involves examining: | The various ways communication takes place as the collaborative activity progresses.
Distributed Cognition , last:.15: A cognitive system in which information is propagated through different media A distributed cognition analysis typically involves examining: | How knowledge is shared and accessed.
Distributed Cognition , last:.15: A cognitive system in which information is propagated through different media A distributed cognition analysis typically involves examining: | Chapter 8 describes in more detail how to conduct a distributed cognition analysis.
Distributed Cognition , last:.15: A cognitive system in which information is propagated through different media A distributed cognition analysis typically involves examining: | Assignment
Distributed Cognition ,  | Assignment: The aim of this assignment is for you to elicit mental models from people. In particular, the goal is for you to understand the nature of people's knowledge about an interactive product in terms of how to use it and how it works.
Distributed Cognition ,  | Assignment: a. First, elicit your own mental model. Write down how you think a cash machine (ATM) works. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991):
Distributed Cognition , last:. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991): | Assignment: How much money are you allowed to take out?
Distributed Cognition ,  | Assignment: If you took this out and then went to another machine and tried to withdraw the same amount, what would happen?
Distributed Cognition , last:. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991): | Assignment: What is on your card?
Distributed Cognition , last:. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991): | What is on your card?: How is the information used?
Distributed Cognition , last:. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991): | How is the information used?: What happens if you enter the wrong number?
Distributed Cognition , last:. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991): | How is the information used?: Why are there pauses between the steps of a transaction?
Distributed Cognition , last:. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991): | How is the information used?: How long are they?
Distributed Cognition , last:. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991): | How long are they?: What happens if you type ahead during the pauses?
Distributed Cognition , last:. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991): | How long are they?: What happens to the card in the machine?
Distributed Cognition , last:. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991): | How long are they?: Why does it stay inside the machine?
Distributed Cognition , last:. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991): | How long are they?: Do you count the money? Why?
Distributed Cognition , last:. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991): | Do you count the money? Why?: Next, ask two other people the same set of questions.
Distributed Cognition ,  | Do you count the money? Why?: b.	Now analyze your answers. Do you get the same or different explanations? What do the findings indicate? How accurate are people's mental models of the way ATMs work? How transparent are the ATM systems they are talking about?
Distributed Cognition ,  | Do you count the money? Why?: c.	Next, try to interpret your findings with respect to the design of the system. Are any interface features revealed as being particularly problematic? What design recommendations do these suggest?
Distributed Cognition ,  | Do you count the money? Why?: d.	Finally, how might you design a better conceptual model that would allow users to develop a better mental model of ATMs (assuming this is a desirable goal)?
Distributed Cognition ,  | Do you count the money? Why?: This exercise is based on an extensive study carried out by Steve Payne on people's mental models of ATMs. He found that people do have mental models of ATMs, frequently resorting to analogies to explain how they work. Moreover, he found that people's explanations were highly variable and
Distributed Cognition , last:. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991): | Do you count the money? Why?: Chapter 3 - Understanding Users
Distributed Cognition ,  | Do you count the money? Why?: Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction, Second Edition by  Helen Sharp, Yvonne Rogers and Jenny Preece
Distributed Cognition , last:. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991): | Do you count the money? Why?: John Wiley & Sons c 2007 Citation Recommend?
What is Cognition? , last:. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991): | 3.2 What is Cognition?
What is Cognition? ,  | Cognition is what goes on in our heads when we carry out our everyday activities. It involves cognitive processes, like thinking, remembering, learning, daydreaming, decision-making, seeing, reading, writing, and talking. As Figure 3.1 indicates, there are many different kinds of cognition. Norman (1993) distinguishes between two general modes: experiential and reflective cognition. The former is a state of mind in which we perceive, act, and react to events around us effectively and effortlessly. It requires reaching a certain level of expertise and engagement. Examples include driving a car, reading a book, having a conversation, and playing a video game. In contrast, reflective cognition involves thinking, comparing, and decision-making. This kind of cognition is what leads to new ideas and creativity. Examples include designing, learning, and writing a book. Norman points out that both modes are essential for everyday life, but that each requires different kinds of technological support.
What is Cognition? , last:. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991): | Figure 3.1: What goes on in the mind?
What is Cognition? , last:. Then answer the following questions (abbreviated from Payne, 1991): | Cognition has also been described in terms of specific kinds of processes. These include:
What is Cognition? ,  | attention perception and recognition memory learning reading, speaking, and listening problem-solving, planning, reasoning, decision-making.
What is Cognition? ,  | It is important to note that many of these cognitive processes are interdependent: several may be involved for a given activity. It is rare for one to occur in isolation. For example, when you try to learn material for an exam, you need to attend to the material, perceive and recognize it, read it, think about it, and try to remember it. Below we describe the various kinds in more detail, followed by a summary box highlighting core design implications for each. Most relevant (and most thoroughly researched) for interaction design is memory, which we describe in greatest detail.
What is Cognition? ,  | Attention is the process of selecting things to concentrate on, at a point in time, from the range of possibilities available. Attention involves our auditory and/or visual senses. An example of auditory attention is waiting in the dentist's waiting room for our name to be called out to know when it is our time to go in. An example of visual attention is scanning the football results in a newspaper to attend to information about how our team has done. Attention allows us to focus on information that is relevant to what we are doing. The extent to which this process is easy or difficult depends on (i) whether we have clear goals and (ii) whether the information we need is salient in the environment.
What is Cognition? ,  | i.	Our goals. If we know exactly what we want to find out we try to match this with the information that is available. For example, if we have just landed at an airport after a long flight and want to find out who had won the World Cup, we might scan the headlines at the newspaper stand, check the web, call a friend, or ask someone in the street. When we are not sure exactly what we are looking for we may browse through information, allowing it to guide our attention to interesting or salient items. For example, when we go to a restaurant we may have the general goal of eating a meal but only a vague idea of what we want to eat. We peruse the menu to find things that whet our appetite, letting our attention be drawn to the imaginative descriptions of various dishes. After scanning through the possibilities and imagining what each dish might be like (plus taking into account other factors, such as cost, who we are with, what the specials are, what the waiter recommends, whether we want a two- or three-course meal, and so on), we may then make a decision.
What is Cognition? ,  | ii.	Information presentation. The way information is displayed can also greatly influence how easy or difficult it is to attend to appropriate pieces of information. Look at Figure 3.2 and try the activity (based on Tullis, 1987). Here, the information-searching tasks are very precise, requiring specific answers. The information density is identical in both displays. However, it is much harder to find the information in the bottom screen than in the top screen. The reason for this is that the information is very poorly structured in the bottom, making it difficult to find the information. In the top, the information has been ordered into meaningful categories with blank spacing between them making it easier to select the necessary information.?
What is Cognition? ,  | Figure 3.2: Two different ways of structuring the same information at the interface: one makes it much easier to find information than the other
What is Cognition? , last:. These include: | Activity 3.1
What is Cognition? ,  | Activity 3.1: Look at the top screen of Figure 3.2 and: (i) find the price for a double room at the Quality Inn in
What is Cognition? ,  | Activity 3.1: Columbia; (ii) find the phone number of the Days Inn in Charleston. Then look at the bottom screen in Figure 3.2 and: (i) find the price of a double room at the Holiday Inn in Bradley; (ii) find the phone number of the Quality Inn in Bedford. Which took longer to do? In an early study Tullis found that the two screens produced quite different results: it took an average of
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. These include: | 3.2 seconds to search the top screen and 5.5 seconds
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | to find the same kind of information in the bottom screen. Why is this so, considering that both displays have the same density of information (31%)? The primary reason is the way the characters are grouped in the display. In the top screen they are grouped into vertical categories of information, e.g. place, kind of accommodation, phone number, and rates, that have columns of space between them. In the bottom screen the information is bunched up together, making it much harder to search through.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Many of us now spend a large proportion of our time staring at a computer screen. While focusing on one task at the screen we switch constantly between others, for example, every 5?10 minutes while writing this chapter I check my email, breaking off sometimes in midsentence to see who has sent me a message and then finding myself diverted to looking at the latest news item or website recommended to me by a colleague. Like nearly everyone else, I am addicted; I can't stop myself from looking.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | I have watched others engaged in ?emulti-apping?f to the point of awe. For example, while attending a talk at a conference I watched a student volunteer in front of me deftly switch between four ongoing instant message chats (one at the conference, one at school, one with friends, one at her part-time job), read, answer, delete, and place all new messages in various folders of her two email accounts, check and scan through a large list of blogs and news feeds?while appearing to listen to the talk, take some notes, google the speaker's background, and open up his publications. When she had a spare moment she played a game of patience. I must say, I felt quite exhausted just watching her for 10 minutes. It was as if she was capable of living in multiple worlds all at the same time while not letting a moment go to waste. But how much did she take in of the talk?
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Moreover, is it possible to pay attention to and not get distracted from the main ongoing activity in our work, e.g. writing an essay, listening to a lecture, when simultaneously engaged in numerous ?eback channel?f, screen-based activities? Surely there must be some detrimental effects? As noted by Katie Hafner (2005), a technology reporter, "distracting oneself used to consist of sharpening a half-dozen pencils or lighting a cigarette. Today, there is a universe of diversions to buy, hear, watch and forward, which makes focussing on a task all the more challenging."
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. These include: | Design Implications: Attention
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. These include: | Make information salient when it needs attending to at a given stage of a task.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Use techniques like animated graphics, color, underlining, ordering of items, sequencing of different information, and spacing of items to achieve this.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Avoid cluttering the interface with too much information. This especially applies to the use of color, sound, and graphics: there is a temptation to use lots of them, resulting in a mishmash of media that is distracting and annoying rather than helping the user attend to relevant information.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Search engines and form fill-ins that are simple are much easier to use, like the Google search engine (see Figure 3.3) . The main reason is that users can more quickly find
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | eyes, ears, fingers, and transformed into experiences of objects, events, sounds, and tastes (Roth, 1986). It is complex, involving other cognitive processes such as memory, attention, and language. Vision is the most dominant sense for sighted individuals, followed by hearing and touch. With respect to interaction design it is important to present information in a way that can be readily perceived in the manner intended.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | As was demonstrated in Activity 3.1, grouping items together and leaving spaces between them can aid attention. In addition, many web designers recommend using blank space (more commonly known as white space) when grouping objects together on a screen as it helps users to perceive and locate items more easily and quickly. However, some researchers suggest that too much white space can be detrimental, making it sometimes harder to find information (Spool et al., 1997). In a study comparing web pages displaying the same amount of information, but which were structured using different graphical methods, it was found that people took less time to locate items for information that was grouped using a border than when using color contrast (Weller, 2004; see Figure 3.4) . The findings suggest that using contrasting color is not a good way to group information on a screen and that using borders is more effective (Galitz, 1997).
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Figure 3.4: Two ways of structuring information on a web page. It takes more time for people to find a named item in the top one than in the bottom one, suggesting that using bordering as a grouping method helps searching while using contrasting color hinders it
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Combinations of different media need also to be designed to allow users to recognize the composite information represented in them in the way intended. The use of sound and animation together needs to be coordinated so they happen in a logical sequence. An example of this is the design of lip-synch applications, where the animation of an avatar's or agent's face to make it appear to be talking must be carefully synchronized with the speech that is emitted. A slight delay between the two can make it difficult and disturbing to perceive what is happening?as sometimes happens when film dubbing gets out of synch. A general design principle is that information needs to be represented in an appropriate form to facilitate the perception and recognition of its underlying meaning.
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. These include: | Design Implications: Perception
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Representations of information need to be designed to be perceptible and recognizable across different media:
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. These include: | Icons and other graphical representations should enable users to readily distinguish their meaning.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Bordering and spacing are effective visual ways of grouping information that makes it easier to perceive and locate items.
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. These include: | Sounds should be audible and distinguishable so users understand what they represent.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Speech output should enable users to distinguish between the set of spoken words and also be able to understand their meaning.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Text should be legible and distinguishable from the background, e.g. it is OK to use yellow text on a black or blue background but not on a white or green background.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Tactile feedback used in virtual environments should allow users to recognize the meaning of the various touch sensations being emulated. The feedback should be distinguishable so that, for example, the sensation of squeezing is represented in a tactile form that is different from the sensation of pushing.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Memory involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately. It is very versatile, enabling us to do many things. For example, it allows us to recognize someone's face, remember someone's name, recall when we last met them, and know what we said to them last. Simply, without memory we would not be able to function.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | It is not possible for us to remember everything that we see, hear, taste, smell, or touch, nor would we want to, as our brains would get completely overloaded. A filtering process is used to decide what information gets further processed and memorized. This filtering process, however, is not without its problems. Often we forget things we would dearly love to remember and conversely remember things we would love to forget. For example, we may find it difficult to remember everyday things like people's names and phone numbers, or scientific knowledge such as mathematical formulae. On the other hand, we may effortlessly remember trivia or tunes that cycle endlessly through our heads.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | How does this filtering process work? Initially, encoding takes place determining which information is attended to in the environment and how it is interpreted. The extent to which it takes place affects our ability to recall that information later. The more attention that is paid to something and the more it is processed in terms of thinking about it and comparing it with other knowledge, the more likely it is to be remembered. For example, when learning about a topic it is much better to reflect upon it, carry out exercises, have discussions with others about it, and write notes than just passively read a book or watch a video about it. Thus, how information is interpreted when it is encountered greatly affects how it is represented in memory and how easy it is to retrieve subsequently.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Another factor that affects the extent to which information can be subsequently retrieved is the context in which it is encoded. One outcome is that sometimes it can be difficult for people to recall information that was encoded in a different context from the one they currently are in. Consider the following scenario:
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | You are on a train and someone comes up to you and says hello. You don't recognize him for a few moments but then realize it is one of your neighbors. You are only used to seeing your neighbor in the hallway of your apartment block and seeing him out of context makes him difficult to recognize initially.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Another well-known memory phenomenon is that people are much better at recognizing things than recalling things. Furthermore, certain kinds of information are easier to recognize than others. In particular, people are very good at recognizing thousands of pictures even if they have only seen them briefly before.
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Consider the following scenario: | Activity 3.2
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Activity 3.2: Try to remember the dates of all the members of your family's and your closest friends' birthdays. How many can you remember? Then try to describe what is on the cover of the last CD/DVD you bought. Which is easiest and why?
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Consider the following scenario: | Activity 3.2: Comment
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: It is likely that you remembered much better what was on the CD/DVD cover (the image, the colors, the title) than the birthdays of your family and friends. People are very good at remembering visual cues about things, for example the color of items, the location of objects (a book being on the top shelf), and marks on an object, e.g. a scratch on a watch, a chip on a cup. In contrast, people find other kinds of information persistently difficult to learn and remember, especially arbitrary material like birthdays and phone numbers.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: Instead of requiring users to recall from memory a command name from a possible set of hundreds or even thousands, GUIs provide visually-based options that users can browse through until they recognize the operation they want to perform. Likewise, web browsers provide facilities for displaying lists of URLs that have been visited. This means that users need only recognize a name of a site when scanning through a list of URLs.
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Consider the following scenario: | Comment: Activity 3.3
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Consider the following scenario: | Activity 3.3: What strategies do you use to help you remember things?
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Consider the following scenario: | Activity 3.3: Comment
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: People often write down what they need to remember on a piece of paper. They also ask others to remind them. Another approach is to use various mental strategies, like mnemonics. A mnemonic involves taking the first letters of a set of words in a phrase or set of concepts and using them to make a more memorable phrase, often using bizarre and idiosyncratic connections. For example, some people have problems working out where east is in relation to west and vice versa, i.e. is it to the left or right. A mnemonic to help figure this out is to take the first letters of the four main points of the compass and then use them in the phrase ?eNever Eat Shredded Wheat,?f mentally recited in a clockwise sequence.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: Personal information management (PIM) has become a growing concern for many people. The number of documents created, images, music files, and videoclips downloaded, emails and attachments saved, URLs bookmarked, and so on increases every day. A major problem is deciding where and how to save them, e.g. in hierarchical or flat folders, and then remembering what they were called and where to find them again. Naming is the most common means of encoding them, but trying to remember a name of a file you created some time back can be very difficult, especially if you have tens of thousands of named files. How might such a process be facilitated, taking into account people's memory abilities?
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: Mark Lansdale and Ernest Edmonds (1992) suggest that it is profitable to view this kind of remembering as involving two memory processes: recall-directed, followed by recognitionbased scanning. The first refers to using memorized information about the required file to get as close to it as possible. The more exact this is the more success the user will have in tracking down the desired file. The second happens when recall has failed to produce what a user wants and so requires reading through a list. To illustrate the difference between these two processes, consider the following scenario: a user is trying to access a couple of websites she visited the week before that compared the selling price of cars offered by different dealers. The user is able to recall the name of one website, ?eautobargains.com.?f She types this in and the website appears. This is an example of successful recall-directed memory. However, the user is unable to remember the name of the second one. She vaguely remembers it was something like
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: ?ealwaysthecheapest.com,?f but typing this in proves unsuccessful. Instead, she switches to scanning her history list and selects the folder labeled more than six days ago. She notices two or three URLs that could be the one desired at the top of the list, and on the second attempt she finds the website she is looking for. In this situation, the user initially tries recalldirected memory and when this fails, adopts the second strategy of recognition-based scanning?which takes longer but eventually results in success.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: File management systems should be designed to optimize both kinds of memory processes. In particular, systems should be developed that let people use whatever memory they have to limit the area being searched and then represent the information in this area of the interface so as to maximally assist them in finding what they need. The system should provide the user with a number of ways of encoding documents mnemonically, including time stamping, categorizing, flagging, and attribution, e.g. color, text, icon, sound, or image.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: Powerful search engines have gone a long way towards helping people track down the files they want. For example, various search and find tools, such as Apple's Spotlight, enable the user to type a full or partial name or even the first letter of a file that it then searches for in the entire system, including emails, contacts, images, calendars, and applications. Figure 3.5 shows part of a list of 158 files that Spotlight matched to the user's phrase ?ecartoon?f, prioritized in terms of what the user may be looking for, such as chapters and images.
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Consider the following scenario: | Comment: Figure 3.5: Apple Computer's Spotlight search tool
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Consider the following scenario: | Comment: Box 3.2: The problem with the magical number 7 plus or minus 2
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: Perhaps the best known finding in psychology (certainly the one that nearly all students remember many years after they have finished their studies) is George Miller's (1956) theory that 7?}2 chunks of information can be held in short-term memory at any one time. By shortterm memory he meant a memory store in which information was assumed to be processed when first perceived. By chunks he meant a range of items like numbers, letters, or words. According to Miller's theory, therefore, people's immediate memory capacity is very limited. They are able to remember only a few words or numbers that they have heard or seen. If you are not familiar with this phenomenon, try out the following exercise: read the first list below (or get someone to read it to you), cover it up, and then try to recall as many of the items as possible. Repeat this for the other lists. 3 , 12, 6, 20, 9, 4, 0, 1, 19, 8, 97, 13,  84 cat, house, paper, laugh, people, red, yes, number, shadow, broom, rain, plant, lamp, chocolate, radio, one, coin, jet t, k, s, y, r, q, x, p, a, z, l, b, m, e
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: How many did you correctly remember for each list? Between 5 and 9, as suggested by Miller's theory?
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: Chunks can also be combined items that are meaningful. For example, it is possible to remember the same number of two-word phrases like hot chocolate, banana split, cream cracker, rock music, cheddar cheese, leather belt, laser printer, tree fern, fluffy duckling, cold rain. When these are all muddled up, e.g. split belt, fern crackers, banana laser, printer cream, cheddar tree, rain duckling, hot rock, however, it is much harder to remember as many chunks. This is mainly because the first set contains all meaningful two-word phrases that have been heard before and require less time to be processed in short-term memory, whereas the second set are completely novel phrases that don't exist in the real world. You need to spend time linking the two parts of the phrase together while trying to memorize them. This takes more time and effort to achieve. Of course it is possible to do if you have time to spend rehearsing them, but if you are asked to do it having heard them only once in quick succession, it is most likely you will remember only a few.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: You may be thinking by now, "OK, this is interesting, but what has it got to do with interaction design?" Well, not only does this 50-year-old theory have a special place in psychology, it has also made a big impression in HCI. Unfortunately, however, for the wrong reasons. Many designers have heard or read about this phenomenon and think, ah, here is a bit of psychology I can usefully apply to interface design. Would you agree with them? If so, how might people's ability to only remember 7 ?}2 chunks that they have just read or heard be usefully applied to interaction design?
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: According to a survey by Bob Bailey (2000), several designers have been led to believe the following guidelines and have even created interfaces based on them:
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Consider the following scenario: | Comment: Have only seven options on a menu.
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Consider the following scenario: | Comment: Display only seven icons on a menu bar.
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Consider the following scenario: | Comment: Never have more than seven bullets in a list.
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Consider the following scenario: | Comment: Place only seven tabs at the top of a website page.
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Consider the following scenario: | Comment: Place only seven items on a pull-down menu.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: All of these are wrong. Why? The simple reason is that these are all items that can be scanned and rescanned visually and hence do not have to be recalled from short-term memory. They don't just flash up on the screen and disappear, requiring the user to remember them before deciding which one to select. If you were asked to find an item of food most people crave in the set of single words listed above, would you have any problem? No, you would just scan the list until you recognized the one (chocolate) that matched the task and then select it?just as people do when interacting with menus, lists, and tabs?regardless of whether they comprise three or 30 items. What the users are required to do here is not remember as many items as possible, having only heard or seen them once in a sequence, but instead scan through a set of items until they recognize the one they want. Quite a different task. Furthermore, there is much more useful psychological research that can be profitably applied to interaction design.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: Memory load. Phone banking has become increasingly popular in the last few years. It allows customers to carry out financial transactions, such as paying bills and checking the balance of their accounts, at their convenience. One of the problems confronting banks that provide this facility, however, is how to manage security concerns. Anyone can phone up a bank and pretend to be someone else. How do the banks prevent fraudulent transactions?
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: One solution has been to develop rigorous security measures whereby customers must provide various pieces of information before gaining access to their accounts. Typically, these include providing the answers to a combination of the following:
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Typically, these include providing the answers to a combination of the following: | Comment: their zip code or post code their mother's maiden name
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: their birthplace the last school they attended the first school they attended a password of between 5 and 10 letters a memorable address (not their home) a memorable date (not their birthday).
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: Many of these are relatively easy to remember and recall as they are very familiar. But consider the last two. How easy is it for someone to come up with such memorable information and then be able to recall it readily? Perhaps the customer can give the address and birthday of another member of their family as a memorable address and date. But what about the request for a password? Suppose a customer selects the word ?einteraction?f as a password?fairly easy to remember. The problem is that the bank operators do not ask for the full password, because of the danger that someone in the vicinity might overhear and write it down. Instead they are instructed to ask the customer to provide specific letters from it, like the seventh followed by the fifth. However, such information does not spring readily to mind. Instead, it requires mentally counting each letter of the password until the desired one is reached. How long does it take you to determine the seventh letter of the password ?einteraction?f? How did you do it?
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: To make things harder, banks also randomize the questions they ask. Again, this is to prevent someone who might be overhearing from memorizing the sequence of information. However, it also means that the customers themselves cannot learn the sequence of information required, meaning they have to generate different information every time they call up the bank.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: This requirement to remember and recall such information puts a big memory load on customers. Some people find such a procedure quite nerve-wracking and are prone to forget certain pieces of information. As a coping strategy they write down their details on a sheet of paper. Having such an external representation at hand makes it much easier for them to read off the necessary information rather than having to recall it from memory. However, it also makes them vulnerable to the very fraud the banks were trying to prevent, should anyone else get hold of that piece of paper!
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Typically, these include providing the answers to a combination of the following: | Comment: Activity 3.4
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Activity 3.4: How else might banks solve the problem of providing a secure system while making the memory load relatively easy for people wanting to use phone banking? How does phone banking compare with online banking?
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Typically, these include providing the answers to a combination of the following: | Activity 3.4: Comment
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: An alternative approach is to provide the customers with a PIN and ask them to key this in on their phone keypad, followed by asking one or two questions like their zip or post code, as a backup. Online banking has similar security risks to phone banking, and hence this requires a number of security measures to be enforced. These include that the user sets up a nickname and a password. For example, some banks require typing in three randomly selected letters from a password each time the user logs on. This is harder to do online than when asked over the phone, mainly because it interferes with the normally highly automated process of typing in a password. You really have to think about what letters and numbers are in your password; for example, has it got two letter fs after the number 6, or just one?
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: Researchers have also investigated whether images could be used instead of alphanumerics for passwords. The idea is based on the principle that recognition is better than recall: users should be able to remember their passwords more accurately if they are required to recognize a set of images from a display that make up their password than if they have to recall a sequence of alphanumerics. To this end, the graphical authentication approach has been developed which asks people to select a series of images from different matrices of options. The images can be faces, cartoons, or photos of scenes or objects, e.g. sunset, dog or even abstract images. To enable the process to be secure, however, requires people selecting a sequence of four to eight images and subsequently being able to recognize each item in the correct sequence. In other words, both recall (of the sequence) and recognition are involved. Studies have shown that while the graphical approach appears an attractive alternative it has yet to demonstrate convincingly an advantage over the use of alphanumerics. Moreover, it takes much longer to create and subsequently select a sequence of images each time a person logs on than typing in a set of letters and numbers at a keyboard (De Angeli et al., 2005).
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: People suffering from memory impairments can find it difficult to complete common household tasks, like cooking and washing up, where they may forget a step or where they were. These can be exacerbated if the person gets disrupted, e.g. the phone rings, and where they may end up not adding an ingredient or adding the washing up liquid twice. A prototype system called Cook's Collage was designed to provide surrogate memory support for general cooking tasks (Tran et al., 2005). Cameras were mounted underneath cabinets to capture still images of a cooking activity. These were then displayed as a series of images, in the form of a cartoon strip, on a flat-panel display mounted on an eye-level kitchen cabinet (see Figure 3.6) . Preliminary evaluation of the prototype, being used by old people while cooking, showed them using it mainly as an aide-memoire, checking to see whether they had added certain ingredients after being distracted from the cooking task at hand.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Comment: Figure 3.6: A screenshot of Cook's Collage showing images of a recent cooking activity. The strip is designed to be read backwards, starting with the highlighted image. This shows to the cook that he previously added the 29th scoop (!) of sugar and in the previous image two scoops of soda water
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Typically, these include providing the answers to a combination of the following: | Comment: Design Implications: Memory
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Typically, these include providing the answers to a combination of the following: | Design Implications: Memory: Do not overload users' memories with complicated procedures for carrying out tasks.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Design interfaces that promote recognition rather than recall by using menus, icons, and consistently placed objects.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Provide users with a variety of ways of encoding digital information, e.g. files, emails, images, to help them remember where they have stored them, through the use of categories, color, flagging, time stamping, icons, etc.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Learning can be considered in terms of (i) how to use a computer-based application or (ii) using a computer-based application to understand a given topic. Jack Carroll (1990) and his colleagues have written extensively about how to design interfaces to help learners develop computer-based skills. A main observation is that people find it very hard to learn by following a set of instructions in a manual. Instead, they much prefer to ?elearn through doing.?f GUIs and direct manipulation interfaces are good environments for supporting this kind of active learning by supporting exploratory interaction and, importantly, allowing users to ?eundo?f their actions, i.e. return to a previous state if they make a mistake by clicking on the wrong option. Carroll has also suggested that another way of helping learners is by using a ?etraining-wheels?f approach. This involves restricting the possible functions that can be carried out by a novice to the basics and then extending these as the novice becomes more experienced. The underlying rationale is to make initial learning more tractable, helping the learner focus on simple operations before moving on to more complex ones.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: There have been numerous attempts to harness the capabilities of different technologies to help learners understand topics. One of the main benefits of interactive technologies, such as web-based, multimedia, and virtual reality, is that they provide alternative ways of representing and interacting with information that are not possible with traditional technologies, e.g. books, video. In so doing, they have the potential of offering learners the ability to explore ideas and concepts in different ways. For example, interactive multimedia has been designed to help children learn abstract concepts, e.g. mathematical formulae, notations, laws of physics, that they find difficult to grasp when represented in other media.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Different representations of the same process, e.g. a graph, a formula, a sound, a simulation, are displayed and interacted with in ways that make their relationship with each other more explicit to the learner.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: One form of interactivity that has been found to be highly effective is ?edynalinking?f (Rogers and Scaife, 1998) . Abstract representations, such as diagrams, are linked together with a more concrete illustration of what they stand for, such as simulation. Changes in one are matched by changes in the other, enabling a better understanding of what the abstraction means. An example where it has been used is in the design of Pondworld, aimed at helping students learn ecological concepts, e.g. food webs. A concrete simulation showed various organisms swimming and moving around and occasionally an event where one would eat another, e.g. a snail eating the weed. This was annotated and accompanied by various eating sounds,
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: e.g. chomping to attract the children's attention. The children could also interact with the simulation. When an organism was clicked on, it would say what it was and what it ate, e.g. "I'm a weed. I make my own food". The concrete simulation was dynalinked with other abstract representations of the pond ecosystem. One of these was an abstract food web diagram (see Figure 3.7) . The children were encouraged to interact with the interlinked diagrams in various ways and to observe what happened in the concrete simulation when something was changed in the diagram and vice versa. The evaluation study showed that children understood much better the purpose of the diagrams and improved significantly in their ability to reason about the ecosystem (Rogers et al., 2003).
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Typically, these include providing the answers to a combination of the following: | Design Implications: Memory: Figure 3.7: Dynalinking used in the Pondworld software
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Dynalinking has been used in other domains to explicitly show relationships among multiple dimensions where the information to be understood or learned is complex (Sutcliffe, 2002). For example, it can be useful for domains like economic forecasting, molecular modeling, and statistical analyses.
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Typically, these include providing the answers to a combination of the following: | Design Implications: Memory: Dilemma: Evolutionary versus revolutionary upgrading
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: A constant dilemma facing designers involved in upgrading software is where and how to place new functions. Decisions have to be made on how to incorporate them with the existing interface design. Do they try to keep the same structure and add more buttons/menu options, or do they design a new model of interaction that is better suited to organizing and categorizing the increased set of functions? If the former strategy is followed, users do not have to learn a new conceptual model every time they upgrade a piece of software. The down side of trying to keep the same interface structure, however, is that it can easily get overloaded.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: A problem when upgrading software, therefore, is working out how to redesign the interaction so that
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: properties. One similarity is that the meaning of sentences or phrases is the same regardless of the mode in which it is conveyed. For example, the sentence "Computers are a wonderful invention" essentially has the same meaning whether one reads it, speaks it, or hears it. However, the ease with which people can read, listen, or speak differs depending
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: on the person, task, and context. For example, many people find listening much easier than reading. Specific differences between the three modes include:
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Written language is permanent while listening is transient. It is possible to reread information if not understood the first time round. This is not possible with spoken information that is being broadcast.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Reading can be quicker than speaking or listening, as written text can be rapidly scanned in ways not possible when listening to serially presented spoken words.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Listening requires less cognitive effort than reading or speaking. Children, especially, often prefer to listen to narratives provided in multimedia or web-based learning material than to read the equivalent text online.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Written language tends to be grammatical while spoken language is often ungrammatical. For example, people often start a sentence and stop in mid-sentence, letting someone else start speaking.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: There are marked differences between people in their ability to use language. Some people prefer reading to listening, while others prefer listening. Likewise, some people prefer speaking to writing and vice versa.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Dyslexics have difficulties understanding and recognizing written words, making it hard for them to write grammatical sentences and spell correctly.
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. Specific differences between the three modes include: | Design Implications: Memory: People who have hearing or sight problems are restricted in the way they can process language.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Many applications have been developed either to capitalize on people's reading, writing, and listening skills, or to support or replace them where they lack or have difficulty with them. These include:
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. These include: | Design Implications: Memory: Interactive books and web-based material that help people to read or learn foreign languages.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Speech-recognition systems that allow users to provide instructions via spoken commands, e.g. wordprocessing dictation, home control devices that respond to vocalized requests.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Speech-output systems that use artificially generated speech, e.g. written-text-to-speech systems for the blind.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Natural-language systems that enable users to type in questions and give text-based responses, e.g. the Ask search engine.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Cognitive aids that help people who find it difficult to read, write, and speak. A number of special interfaces have been developed for people who have problems with reading, writing, and speaking, e.g. see Edwards (1992).
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Customized input and output devices that allow people with various disabilities to have access to the web and use wordprocessors and other software packages.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Interaction techniques that allow blind people to read graphs and other visuals on the web through the use of auditory navigation and tactile diagrams (Petrie et al., 2002).
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. These include: | Design Implications: Memory: Design Implications: Reading, speaking, and listening
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Keep the length of speech-based menus and instructions to a minimum. Research has shown that people find it hard to follow spoken menus with more than three or four options. Likewise, they are bad at remembering sets of instructions and directions that have more than a few parts.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Accentuate the intonation of artificially generated speech voices, as they are harder to understand than human voices.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Provide opportunities for making text large on a screen, without affecting the formatting, for people who find it hard to read small text.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Problem-solving, planning, reasoning, and decision-making are all processes involving reflective cognition. They include thinking about what to do, what the options are, and what the consequences might be of carrying out a given action. They often involve conscious processes (being aware of what one is thinking about), discussion with others (or oneself), and the use of various kinds of artifacts, e.g. maps, books, pen and paper. For example, when planning the best route to get somewhere, say a foreign city, we may ask others, use a map, get instructions from the web, or a combination of these. Reasoning also involves working through different scenarios and deciding which is the best option or solution to a given problem. In the route-planning activity we may be aware of alternative routes and reason through the advantages and disadvantages of each route before deciding on the best one. Many a family argument has come about because one member thinks he or she knows the best route while another thinks otherwise.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Comparing different sources of information is also common practice when seeking information on the web. For example, just as people will phone around for a range of quotes, so too will they use
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: ?ecomparison?f search engines, e.g. cheapflights.com, that list products in terms of their prices available on other sites.
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: The extent to which people engage in reflective cognition depends on their level of experience with a domain, application, or skill. Novices tend to have limited knowledge and will often make assumptions about what to do using other knowledge about similar situations. They tend to act by trial and error, exploring and experimenting with ways of doing things. As a result they may start off being slow, making errors, and generally being inefficient. They may also act irrationally, following their superstitions and not thinking ahead to the consequences of their actions. In contrast, experts have much more knowledge and experience and are able to select optimal strategies for carrying out their tasks. They are likely to be able to think ahead more, considering what the consequences might be of opting for a particular move or solution (as do expert chess players).
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. These include: | Design Implications: Memory: Box 3.4: Wanted: an interface that the police can use
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: In 2004 the San Jose police department installed a new mobile dispatch system in every police car that used a windows-based touch-screen computer. But the system was found to be too complex and difficult to use (Hafner, 2005). Part of the problem was that routine tasks, e.g. calling for assistance, that should have been straightforward to do were transformed into overly complicated tasks, requiring long sequences. The system was designed to aid police in rapid decision-making when driving their cars, but the interface was found to be too cluttered and behaved too much like a Windows computer. As one police officer said: "do you think if you're hunkered down and someone's shooting at you in your car, you're going to be able to sit there and look for Control or Alt or Function? No you are going to look for the red button." After consultation with police officers the interface was designed to be much simpler and with fewer steps required for critical actions.
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. These include: | Design Implications: Memory: Design Implications: Problem-solving, planning, reasoning, and decision-making
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Design Implications: Memory: Provide additional hidden information that is easy to access for users who wish to understand more about how to carry out an activity more effectively, e.g. web
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. These include: | Design Implications: Memory: Chapter 5 - Affective Aspects
seconds to search the top screen and ,  | Chapter 5 - Affective Aspects: Interaction Design: Beyond Human-Computer Interaction, Second Edition by  Helen Sharp, Yvonne Rogers and Jenny Preece
seconds to search the top screen and , last:. These include: | Chapter 5 - Affective Aspects: John Wiley & Sons c 2007 Citation Recommend?
Anthropomorphism in Interaction Desi , last:. These include: | 5.6 Anthropomorphism in Interaction Design
Anthropomorphism in Interaction Desi ,  | A controversial debate in interaction design is whether to exploit anthropomorphism (the propensity people have to attribute human qualities to objects). It is something that people do naturally in their everyday lives and is commonly exploited in the design of technologies, e.g. the creation of human-like animals and plants in cartoon films, the design of toys that have human qualities. The approach is also becoming more widespread in interaction design, through the introduction of agents and interactive toys.
Anthropomorphism in Interaction Desi ,  | It is well known that people readily attribute human qualities to their pets and their cars, and, conversely, are willing to accept human attributes that have been assigned by others to cartoon characters, robots, and toys. Advertisers are well aware of this phenomenon and often create human-like characters out of inanimate objects to promote their products. For example, breakfast cereals, butter, and fruit drinks have all been transmogrified into characters with human qualities (they move, talk, have personalities, and show emotions), enticing the viewer to buy them. Children are especially susceptible to this kind of ?emagic,?f as witnessed by their love of cartoons, where all manner of inanimate objects are brought to life with human-like qualities.
Anthropomorphism in Interaction Desi ,  | The finding that people, especially children, have a propensity to accept and enjoy objects that have been given human-like qualities has led many designers to capitalize on it, most notably in the design of human?computer dialogs modeled on how humans talk to each other. A range of animated screen characters, such as agents, friends, advisors, and virtual pets, have been developed.
Anthropomorphism in Interaction Desi ,  | Anthropomorphism has also been used in the development of cuddly toys that are embedded with software. Early commercial products like ActiMates were designed to encourage children to learn through playing with the cuddly toys. For example, Barney (a cuddly bear ActiMate) attempted to motivate play in children by using human-based speech and movement (Strommen, 1998). The toys were programmed to react to the child and make comments while watching TV together or working together on a computer-based task. In particular, Barney was programmed to congratulate the child whenever she produced a right answer and also to react to the content on screen with appropriate emotions, e.g. cheering at good news and expressing concern at bad news. More recently, interactive dolls, such as those produced by Playmates Toys, have been designed to talk, sense, and understand the world around them, using sensor-based technologies, speech recognition, and various mechanical protractors embedded in their bodies. For example, Amazing Amanda can exhibit a number of facial expressions to convey her feelings. If she is offered something to eat she does not want, e.g. a piece of plastic pizza embedded with an RFID tag that when placed near her mouth is read by a tag reader hidden in her neck, she will contort her face and say "I don't want that" (Figure 5.12).
Anthropomorphism in Interaction Desi , last:. These include: | Figure 5.12: Playmates Toys interactive doll called Amazing Amanda
Anthropomorphism in Interaction Desi ,  | An underlying argument in favor of the anthropomorphic approach is that furnishing interactive systems with personalities and other human-like attributes makes them more enjoyable and fun to interact with. It is also assumed that they can motivate people to carry out the tasks suggested, e.g. purchasing goods, more strongly than if they are presented in cold, abstract computer language. Being addressed in first person, e.g. "Hello Chris! Nice to see you again. Welcome back. Now what were we doing last time? Oh yes, exercise 5. Let's start again", is much more appealing than being addressed in the impersonal third person ("User 24, commence exercise 5"), especially for children. It can make them feel more at ease and reduce their anxiety. Similarly, interacting with screen characters like tutors and wizards can be much more pleasant than interacting with a cold dialog box or blinking cursor on a blank screen. Typing a question in plain English, using a search engine like Ask (which was based on the well-known fictitious butler Jeeves, who has now been retired), is more natural and personable than thinking up a set of keywords, as required by other search engines.
Anthropomorphism in Interaction Desi ,  | However, there have been many criticisms of the anthropomorphic approach. Shnei-derman (1998), one of the best known critics, has written at length about the problems of attributing human qualities to computer systems. His central argument is that anthropomorphic interfaces, especially those that use first-person dialog and screen characters, are downright deceptive. An unpleasant side-effect is that they can make people feel anxious, resulting in them feeling inferior or stupid. A screen tutor that wags its finger at the user and says, "Now, Chris, that's not right! Try again. You can do better" is likely to feel more offensive than a system dialog box saying, "Incorrect. Try again."
Anthropomorphism in Interaction Desi ,  | Anthropomorphism can also lead people into a false sense of belief, enticing them to confide in agents called ?esoftware bots?f that reside in chatrooms and other electronic spaces, pretending to be conversant human beings. Furthermore, children are no longer required to use their imagination when acting out real-life scenarios, e.g. playing doctors and nurses, but can play with dolls that control the play, telling them their wants and dislikes. By far the most common complaint against computers pretending to have human qualities, however, is that people find them very annoying. Once users discover that a system cannot really converse like a human or does not possess real human qualities (like having a personality or being sincere), they become quickly disillusioned and subsequently distrust it. E-commerce sites that pretend to be caring by presenting an assortment of virtual assistants, receptionists, and other such helpers are seen for what they really are?artificial. Children and adults alike also are quickly bored and annoyed with applications that are fronted by artificial screen characters, e.g. tutor wizards, and simply ignore whatever they might suggest.
Anthropomorphism in Interaction Desi ,  | A number of studies have investigated people's reactions and responses to computers that have been designed to be more human-like. A body of work reported by Reeves and Nass (1996) has identified several benefits of the anthropomorphic approach. They found that computers that were designed to flatter and praise users when they did something right had a positive impact on how they felt about themselves. For example, an educational program was designed to say, "Your question makes an interesting and useful distinction. Great job!" after a user had contributed a new question to it. Students enjoyed the experience and were more willing to continue working with the computer than were other students who were not praised by the computer for doing the same things. In another study, Walker et al. (1994)  compared people's responses to a talking-face display and an equivalent text-only one and found that people spent more time with the former than the latter. When given a questionnaire to fill in, the face-display group made fewer mistakes and wrote down more comments. In a follow-up study, Sproull et al. (1996) again found that users reacted quite differently to the two interfaces, with users presenting themselves in a more positive light to the talking-face display and generally interacting with it more.
Anthropomorphism in Interaction Desi ,  | Sproull et al.'s studies also revealed, however, that the talking-face display made some users feel disconcerted or displeased. The choice of a stern talking face may have been a large contributing factor. Perhaps a different kind of response would have been elicited if a friendlier smiling fa
Chrestomathy
Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience
Satisfactory
Frustrating
is NOT one of these is useful heuristics for analyzing interactive product,  so find it out:|a. Feedback
but:|a. Consistency
Constraint
Affordance
|b. TRUE
Efficiency
Identify needs - Develop design - Building version - Evaluate user experience
Evaluating what has been build
That can help designer understand how to design interactive product to fit it
TRUE
FALSE
All of above
and specifying relevant usability and user experience helps analyzing & evaluating aspects, if NOT? What it is?|a. Lead to design of good interactive products
of use, user experience, culture differences, user groups optimize interaction between users & interactive product requires, is that true? If not, what?|c. Context of use, types of activity, culture differences, user groups
design DONT involve many inputs from some disciplines and fields|a. TRUE
more feedback functions are, the more likely users will be able to know what to do next, if NOT? What else?|b. Visibility
interaction modeling is NOT user & system act as dialog partners, if NOT, what else?      |Ans: c.
repeat actions performed on multiple objects is cons when using interface metaphors, if NOT, what else?      |Ans: a.
outlines one of core principle that need to follow how the system actually works is portrayed to the user through the interface, if NOT, what else?       |Ans: b.
are typically abstracted from a contributing discipline that can be apply in interaction design, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: d.
are helping designer constrain and scope the user experience of which they are desinging, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: a.
are typically abstracted from a contributing discipline that can be apply in interaction design, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: b.
interaction modeling is describing how users carry out their tasks by telling the system what to do, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: d.
moving through virtual or physical environment refers conversing interaction modeling, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: a.
moving through virtual or physical environment is instructing interaction modeling, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: c.
creativity and playfulness is one of benefits on instruction issuing, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: b.
visual & model is opposition to using interface metaphors, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: a.
with design principles is mistake made when designing interface metaphors, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: c.
model establishes a set of common terms they all understand and agree upon, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: d.
identifying human activities and interactivites that are problematic can be problem space, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: b.
that it is a description of the user interface is referred to define conceptual model, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: c.
of conceptualizing a design early encourages design team: Asking about how the conceptual model will be understood by targeted users, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: c.
metaphor is NOT a name for describing specific operation, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: a.
is browsing, analogy is drawing can be called different from metaphor & analogy, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: a.
relationship between users experience & product concepts is one of components on conceptual model of Johnson & Henderson (2002), is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: c.
on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: Concepts, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: b.
fundamental aspect of interactive design is to understand user experience and interaction product, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: d.
about conceptual design should NOT be made after commencing any physical design      |Ans: a.
metaphors are NOT commonly used as part of a conceptual design      |Ans: b.
frameworks provide another way of framing and informing design and research, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: b.
when using interface metaphors is involving manipulating objects and capitalizing users knowledge, is that true? If not, what else?      |Ans: c.
NOT involving congnition process, is that true? If not, what else?|a. All of above
is a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly, is that true? If not, what else?|d. Experiential
involves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity, is that true? If not, what else?|d. Reflective cognition
is NOT usual for cognitive prcesses to occur in  isolation|b. TRUE
is the process to concentrate on, from the range of posibility available, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Attention
refers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs, is that true? If not, what else?|c. Perception
involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Memory
interfaces that promote recall NOT rather than recognition by using menu, icon, and consistently placed objects|b. TRUE
interfaces that constrain and guide users NOT to select appropriate actions after learning|a. TRUE
and other graphical representations should NOT enable users to readily distinguish their meaning|b. FALSE
and spacing are NOT effective visual ways of separating info that makes it easier to perceive and locate items|b. FALSE
making information plain when it needs attending to at a given stage of a task|a.
TRUE
the designer's imagination is NOT in mistakes made when designing interface metaphors, is that true? If not, what else?|c. All of the above
model is exposed through the task-domain objects they are created and manipulated, is that true? If not, what else?|d. A high-level description of how a system is organized and operates
less underlying assumptions and claims can be called problem space, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked
speaking and listening is NOT in cognitive aspects, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Reading, speaking and listening
and divided attention enables us to be selective in terms of the mass of competing stimuli but limits our ability to keep track of all events |a. TRUE
and divided attention NOT enables us to be selective in terms of the mass of competing stimuli but limits our ability to keep track of all events |b. FALSE
at the interface should be structured to capture users?attention|a. TRUE
at the interface should NOT be structured to capture users?attention|b. FALSE
imply what for attention?|d. All the above
imply what for perception and recognition?|b. Information is acquired and transformed into experiences
implication implies for perception and recognition, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Information is acquired and transformed into experiences
imply what for  implications?|b. Readily distinguishtheir meaning
audible and distinguishable imply for implications, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Information is acquired and transformed into experiences
the interactions environment they are working in is conversational mechanism, is that true? If not, what else?|b. enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop
the interactions environment they are working in is co-ordination mechanism, is that true? If not, what else?|c. take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something
the interactions environment they are working in is awareness mechanism, is that true? If not, what else?|a. involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom
aspects are the actions and interactions that people engage at work, is that true? If not, what else?|a. all of above
and the way it is managed is integral to collaborative technology, is that true? If not, what else?|c. coordinating social activities
distributed cognition approach describes NOT for what happens in a cognitive system, is that true? If not, what else?|a. all of above
act through language is the basic premise of the language/action framework, is that true? If not, what else?|b. people act through language
is not the form of speech act theory, is that true? If not, what else?|d. Decorative
framework was developed to take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something, is that true? If not, what else?|c. inform the design of systems to help people work more effectively through improving the way they communicate with one another
current speaker chooses the next speaker by asking an opinion is rule 3 of
Conversational mechanisms, is that true? If not, what else?|a. the current speaker continues talking
current speaker continues talking is rule 2 of Conversational mechanisms, is that true? If not, what else?|b. another person decides to start speaking
person decides to start speaking is rule 1 of Conversational mechanisms, is that true? If not, what else?|c. the current speaker chooses the next speaker by asking an opinion
of Conversational mechanisms are followings, is that true? If not, what else?|c. the current speaker chooses the next speaker by asking an opinion
person decides to start speaking is rule 1 of Conversational mechanisms|a. FALSE
current speaker continues talking is rule 2 of Conversational mechanisms|a. FALSE
Conversational mechanisms|a. FALSE
current speaker continues talking is rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms|b. TRUE 1 In general, the term "affective" refers to emotional skills, is that true? If not, what else?|b. affective behavior
2
is the attribution of informative and fun, is that true? If not, what else?|d. human qualities to objects
often prefer humanlike to those that attempt to be simple cartoon-like agents, is that true? If not, what else?|b. simple cartoon-like agents, humanlike
increasingly popular form of well-designed interfaces is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface, is that true? If not, what else?|c. anthropomorphism
agents are formed, often to be understood as predefined personality and set of moods that are manipulated by users, is that true? If not, what else?|d. tutors, wizards and helpers intended to help users perform a task
conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment, is that true? If not, what else?|a. generating verbal and non-verbal output
agents are formed, often to be understood as 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment, is that true? If not, what else?|d. predefined personality and set of moods that are manipulated by users
characters are formed, often to be understood as predefined personality and set of moods that are manipulated by users, is that true? If not, what else?|c. 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment
frustration does NOT happen when a user?s expectations are not met, is that true? If not, what else?|b. When a system requires users to carry out specific step to perform a task
frustration happens when a system requires users to carry out specific step to perform a task, is that true? If not, what else?|a. When an application doesn?t work properly or crashes
frustration happens when  an application doesn?t work properly or crashes|a. TRUE
frustration happens when a system requires users to carry out specific step to perform a task|a. TRUE
frustration NOT happens when an application doesn?t work properly or crashes|b. FALSE
frustration NOT happens when a system requires users to carry out specific step to perform a task|b. FALSE
conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as generating verbal and non-verbal output|a. TRUE
conversational interface agents are formed, often to be NOT understood as generating verbal and non-verbal output|b. FALSE
interfaces is|b. how the ?appearance?of an interface can affect users  19 Expressive interfaces is how the ?UI?of an interface can affect users, is that true? If not, what else?|b. how the ?appearance?of an interface can affect users
interfaces is how the ?appearance?of an interface can affect users |a. TRUE
interfaces is NOT how the ?appearance?of an interface can affect users |b. FALSE
technologies is |a. how technologies can be designed to change people?s attitudes and behavior
technologies is how technologies can be implemented to change people?s attitudes and behavior, is that true? If not, what else?|a. how technologies can be designed to change people?s attitudes and behavior
technologies is how technologies can be implemented to change people?s attitudes and behavior|b. FALSE
technologies is how technologies can be designed to change people?s attitudes and behavior|a. TRUE
technologies is how technologies can NOT be designed to change people?s attitudes and behavior|b. FALSE
refer to a new generation of user?computer environments, is that true? If not, what else?|a. A particular approach that has been adopted by a community in terms of shared assumptions, concepts, values and practices
interfaces can be defined as represented applications, objects, commands, and tools that were opened when clicked on, is that true? If not, what else?|c. could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse
interfaces can be defined as a mouse controlling the cursor as a point of entry to the windows, menus, and icons on the screen, is that true? If not, what else?|d. represented applications, objects, commands, and tools that were opened when clicked on
interfaces can be defined as offering lists of options that could be scrolled through and selected, is that true? If not, what else?|b. offering lists of options that could be scrolled through and selected
device interfaces can be defined as could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse, is that true? If not, what else?|a. a mouse controlling the cursor as a point of entry to the windows, menus, and icons on the screen
stands for Virtual Relationship/Virtual Entry, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments
type in 1980s included Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech and Appliance, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Command and WIMP/GUI
type in 1990s included: Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech and Mobile, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance
type in 2000s included Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech and Appliance, is that true? If not, what else?|d. Mobile, muptimodal, shareable, tangible, wearable, robotic, augmented and mixed reality
interface type that expert use in AutoCAD, is that true? If not, what else?|a.
Command
means compters have a strong influence, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Computers would be designed to be embedded in the environment and very popular
shrink or switch is advantage of flat menu, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time
interface is that the commercial application Sony's EyeToy used, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Gesture
means name of a equipment, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Name of keyboard
interfaces are type of interaction and they use color-based, , is that true? If not, what else?|c. Sensor-based
interfaces are type of interaction and they use sensor-based|a. TRUE
interfaces are NOT type of interaction and they use sensor-based|b. FALSE
means name of a keyboard|a. TRUE
NOT means name of a keyboard|b. FALSE
at displaying a small number of options at the same time is NOT advantage of flat menu|a. TRUE
type in 1980s included command and WIMP/GUI|a. TRUE
type in 1980s NOT included command and WIMP/GUI|b. FALSE
defines|a. A particular approach that has been adopted by a community in terms of shared assumptions, concepts, values and practices
interfaces can be|c. could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse
key issues of data gathering are setting goals, Relationship with participants,
Triangulation, Semi-structure studies, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Setting goals, Relationship with participants, Triangulation, Pilot studies
questions have no predetermined format, is that true? If not, what else?|c. A predetermined answer format, e.g., ?yes?or ?no?
interviews are not directed by a script, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Not directed by a script
interviews are rich but not replicable, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Tightly scripted
interviews are replicable but may lack richness, is that true? If not, what else?|d. Good balance between richness and replicability
questions have predetermined answer format, e.g., ?yes?or ?no?, is that true? If not, what else?|b. No predetermined format
the interview should be intro, explain the goals, main body, and closure, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Intro, warm-up, main body, and closure
a good response should be ensure questionnaire is well designed, is that true? If not, what else?|d. All of answers
of online questionnaires are copying and postage costs, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Responses are usually received quickly
with online questionnaires preventing individuals from responding more than two, is that true? If not, what else?|c. Individuals have also been known to change questions in email questionnaires
is vary along a scale from ?outside?to ?inside?, is that true? If not, what else?|a. A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews
gathering techniques can be combined depending on participants, is that true? If not, what else?|c. All of the answers
are 2 key issues in Data gathering, is that true? If not, what else?|c. 4
trial run is pilot study, is that true? If not, what else?|c. Small trial run
calculation result & Information is displayed of experiments: are difference between
Data and Information, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Data is conclusions maybe drawn, Information is the result of analyzing and interpreting data
recording, taking photographs and video recording are common form of data recording, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording
are 6 form main types of interviews, is that true? If not, what else?|b. 4
are three main types of Data gathering, what are they?|a. Interviews, questionaires, and observation
is one of the types of interviews, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Structured
is the intelligent agent that guides visitor to the website Agentland, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Cybelle
is what they enrich the interview experience, is that true? If not, what else?|a.
Props
and semantic are two main rating scales, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Likert and semantic
is one of the types of interviews, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Structured 24 Observation is one of the types of interviews, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Structured
data is expressed the nature of elements, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Expressed as numbers
data is expressed as numbers, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers
quantitative analysis should be semi-structured, is that true? If not, what else?|c. Graphical representations
qualitative analysis should be averages, is that true? If not, what else?|d. Semistructured
frameworks for qualitative analysis is retributed Cognition, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Grounded Theory
Theory is used for analyzing collaborative work, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Aims to derive theory from systematic analysis of data
Theory is used for analyzing collaborative work, is that true? If not, what else?|c. Explains human behaviorin terms of our practical activity with the world
Cognition are models the mediating role of artifacts, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Used for analyzing collaborative work
best way to present your findings depends on the audience, the presentation, the data gathering and analysis undertaken, is that true? If not, what else?|d. The audience, the purpose, the data gathering and analysis undertaken
of the findings should overstate the evidence|b. FALSE
you to be able to analyze data gathered from observation studies is not one of true main aim of the Chapter 8, is that true? If not, what else?|d. Enable you to be able to analyze data gathered from ethnographys
is median value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9), is that true? If not, what else?|c. 7
is mode value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9), is that true? If not, what else?|d. 8
is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9), is that true? If not, what else?|a. 6.89
are 4 types of qualitive analysis that we discuss in Simple qualitative analysis, is that true? If not, what else?|a. 3
are 3 frameworks do we use in the analysis of qualitative data, is that true? If not, what else?|b. 3
is one of the more popular quantitative analysis boxes, is that true? If not, what else?|b. packages
use three theorical frameworks, including grounded theory, field study, and activity theory, is that true? If not, what else?|d. Grounded theory, distributed cognition, and activity theory
coding is NOT one of the approach to analysis in the Grounded theory, is that true? If not, what else?|d. Formative coding
cognition approach is introduce in Chapter 1, is that true? If not, what else?|c.
Chapter 3
8 NOT discuss about Data analysis, interpretation and presentation?|b. FALSE
is sometime assumed that certain forms of data gathering will NOT result in quantitative data and others will only result in qualitative data?|a. TRUE
STUDY 8.1 NOT uses ethnographic data to understand Idian ATM usage?|b. FALSE
in the qualitative data is NOT more difficult to measure than quantitative data|b.
FALSE
theory (AT) is a product of Soviet psychology|a. TRUE
approach is based on later focus on users and tasks, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Empirical measurement
basic activities in Interaction Design are: Building needs, Verify alternative designs, Developing interactive versions, Evaluating designs, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs
who receive output from the product are the users/stakeholders, is that true? If not, what else?|c. Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary
primary in stakeholders means the who is frequent hands-on, is that true? If not, what else?|c. The who is frequent hands-on
secondary in stakeholders means who is occasional or via someone else, is that true? If not, what else?|a. The who is occasional or via someone else
tertiary in stakeholders means who is occasional or via someone else, is that true? If not, what else?|a. The who is affected by its introduction
principles of User-centered design are on time focus, Empirical measurement,
Iterative design, is that true? If not, what else?|c. Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design
engineering lifecycle model defines: from top to down engineering, is that true? If not, what else?|d. Stages of identifying requirements, designing, evaluating, prototyping
Star lifecycle model defines iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated, is that true? If not, what else?|a. No particular ordering of activities; development may start in any one
Lifecycle model defines iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated
?waterfall? lifecycle defines iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated, is that true? If not, what else?|c. From top to down engineering
alternatives is NOT a key principle in most design disciplines|b. FALSE
term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that NOT captures a set of activities and how they are related|b. FALSE
is stand for Rare Application Development?|b. FALSE
model is NOT developed by Barry Boehm?|b. FALSE
are used in develop JAD model?|a. TRUE
the design is NOT one of three fundamental activities that are recognized in all design, is that true? If not, what else?|d. Measure the design
is NOT one of the seven secrets that Kelley (2001) describles for better brainstorms, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Review
for coding is value of prototype in design, is that true? If not, what else?|c. Effective role playing exercise
of satisfying users, we need to involve users in interaction design, is that true? If not, what else?|a. get realistic expectations, no surprises, no disaspointment
is involved in Interaction Design, is that true? If not, what else?|c. Process
are 3 degrees of user involvement, is that true? If not, what else?|a. 4
working is NOT one of steps in user-centered approach, is that true? If not, what else?|d. Onsite working
are 3 basic activities in Interaction Design, is that true? If not, what else?|c. 4
categories of user including: primary, secondary, and the last, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Primary, secondary, and tertiary
term lifecycle model used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related, is that true? If not, what else?|a. activities and how they are related
is NOT one of the lifecyle models in software engineering, is that true? If not, what else?|c. Star
lifecycle model including 5 steps, is that true? If not, what else?|b. 5 steps
lifecycle model was proposed by Hartson and Hix in 80s, is that true? If not, what else?|b. 1980s
Engineering Lifecycle was proposed by Hartson and Hix, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Deborah Meyhew
international standard is used in HCI, is that true? If not, what else?|c. ISO13407
requirement design, task analysis focus on articulating existing and envisioned work practices, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Use mainly to investigate an existing situation
requirement design, scenarios focus on initially interpretation before deeper analysis, is that true? If not, what else?|c. Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.
requirement design, use cases focus on articulating existing and envisioned work practices, is that true? If not, what else?|c. Use mainly to investigate an existing situation
requirement design, data interpretation focus on articulating existing and envisioned work practices, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Initial interpretation before deeper analysis
approaches emphasize different elements e.g. class diagrams for non-objectoriented systems, entity-relationship diagrams for data intensive systems|b. FALSE 6 Different data interpretation approaches emphasize difference elements|a. TRUE
requirement is what the system should do, is that true? If not, what else?|b. What response time system should be?
requirement is how beautiful enough of GUI need to be, is that true? If not, what else?|a. What the system should do
requirements right is crucial, is that true? If not, what else?|c. crucial
different kinds of traditional requirements are functional and non-functional, is that true? If not, what else?|a. functional and non-functional
requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments: physical, ideology, organisation, and technical environment, is that true? If not, what else?|d. Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment
requirements capture the required data of type, volatility, size/amount, accuracy and value, is that true? If not, what else?|c. type, volatility, size/amount, persistence, accuracy and value
requirements or context of use include the aspects of social, organizational and technical environment, is that true? If not, what else?|b. physical, social, organizational and technical environment
device WetPC company created for undersea divers, is that true? If not, what else?|a. KordGrip
|c. Not real people, but synthesised from real user characteristics
Hofstede, management theorist identified "dimensions' of national culture including living distance, idividualism,masculinity - femininity, and uncertainty avoidance, is that true? If not, what else?|b. power distance, idividualism,masculinity - femininity, and uncertainty avoidance
goals include efficiency, safety, utility, learnability, and memorability, is that true? If not, what else?|d. effectiveness, efficiency, safety, utility, learnability, and memorability
gathering for requirement including: interview, observation, and studying documentation, is that true? If not, what else?|c. Interview, questionaire, observation, and studying documentation
requirements capture what the product should NOT do?|b. FALSE
requirements capture the type, volality, size/amount, persistence, accuracy, and value of the non-required data?|b. FALSE
|b. FALSE
characteristics capture the normal attributes of the intended user group|b. FALSE
and user experience goals should be separated with appropriate measures|b. FALSE
gathering for requirement including: Interview, questionaire, and studying documentation|b. FALSE
gathering for requirement including: Interview, questionaire, observation, and studying documentation|a. TRUE
gathering for requirement including: Interview, questionaire, observation, prototype and studying documentation|b. FALSE
goals include effectiveness, efficiency, safety, utility, learnability, and memorability|a. TRUE
|a. Conceptual and physical model
|a. Low and high fidelity
|c. Help to create lifecycle model
|b. Paper and cardboard
|d. Simple, cheap, and quick to produce
|a. Final product
|d. Easy to develop
|b. User may believe that the prototype is the system
|b. Transform from user requirements/needs
|c. DENIM
|d. Move to a solution too quickly
|a. Considering interaction types
are two types of prototype including: low fidelity and high fidelity prototype, is that true? If not, what else?|a. TRUE
common compromises of prototype including high and low prototype|b. FALSE
common compromises of prototype including longterm and shortterm prototype|b. FALSE
low fidelity prototype is NOT one that look like very much like the final product|a. TRUE
fidelity prototyping uses materials that you would NOT expect to be in the final product|b. FALSE
in prototyping can be|a. vertical & horizontal
is a prototype?|d. all the answers
storyboard is a prototype|a. TRUE
prototype|d. all the answers
and feedback are central to interaction design is the cause of why prototyping|a. TRUE
and feedback are central to interaction design is NOT the cause of why prototyping|b. FALSE
Prototyping is |d. all the answers
Prototyping is evaluation and feedback are central to interaction design|b.
FALSE
|b. FALSE
|b. FALSE
|a. TRUE
|b. FALSE
|b. FALSE
is NOT one of the evaluation approachs, is that true? If not, what else?|c. Awareness
check that developer can design the product is why we have to evaluate, is that true? If not, what else?|a. To check that users can use the product and that they like it
the size of the keys on the cell phone can be done in a school, is that true? If not, what else?|b. a laboratory
on the interface of product itself, we implement evaluation, is that true? If not, what else?|a. Depend on the type of product itself
evaluation is an approach that include: Heuristic evaluation, field study, and modeling, is that true? If not, what else?|c. Heuristic evaluation, walkthroughs, and modeling
controlling experiment, is a study that is performed in a laboratory, is that true? If not, what else?|d. Evaluator
study is a study that is done in a laboratory, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Natural environment
evaluation, an evaluation to check that the product continues to meet user's need is done during testing, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Design
testing was the dominant evaluation approach in the 70s, is that true? If not, what else?|c. 1980s
laboratory is a laboratory that is designed for usability testing, is that true? If not, what else?|b. Usability testing
laboratory is a laboratory that is designed for usability testing|a. TRUE
laboratory is a laboratory that is designed for formative evaluation|b. FALSE
evaluation, an evaluation to check that the product continues to meet user's need is done during testing|b. FALSE
evaluation, an evaluation to check that the product continues to meet user's need is done during designing|a. TRUE
study is a study that is done in a laboratory|b. FALSE
study is a study that is done in a natural environment|a. TRUE
& design are closely integrated in user-centered design. |a. TRUE 24 Evaluation & design are|b. closely integrated in user-centered design.
Different evaluation approaches and methods are often combined in |a. one study
|c. 6
|b. Determine the goals
|b. Ethical code
is the first step of DECIDE framework?|b. Determine the goals
is the second step of DECIDE framework?|a. Explore the questions
is the third step of DECIDE framework?|c. Choose the evaluation approachand methods
is the fourth step of DECIDE framework?|d. Identify the practical issues
is the fifth step of DECIDE framework?|b. Decide how to deal with the ethical issues
is the sixth step of DECIDE framework?|c. Evaluate, analyze, interpret and present the data
sixth step of DECIDE framework is to explore the questions|b. FALSE
fifth step of DECIDE framework is to decide how to deal with the ethical issues|a.
TRUE
fourth step of DECIDE framework is to identify the practical issues|a. TRUE
fourth step of DECIDE framework is to explore the questions|b. FALSE
third step of DECIDE framework is to explore the questions|b. FALSE
second step of DECIDE framework is to aim the object|b. FALSE
goal of DECIDE framework is|b. Identify the best metaphor on which to base the design
the DECIDE evaluation approach & methods for|d. all the answers
are many issues to consider before conducting an evaluation study|a. TRUE
are less issues to consider before conducting an evaluation study|b. FALSE
DECIDE framework provides a useful checklist for planning an evaluation study|a.
TRUE
DECIDE framework provides a useful checklist for planning an estimation|b. FALSE
DECIDE framework provides a useful checklist for lab and checking work progress|b. FALSE
second step of DECIDE framework points to|d. Identify the practical issues
first step of DECIDE framework points to|a. Determine the goals
third step of DECIDE framework points to|b. Choose the evaluation approach and methods
are three types of experimental design|a. different-same-matched participants
is a central part of usability testing|a. TRUE
testing is done in controlled conditions|a. TRUE
testing is an adapted form of experimentation|a. TRUE
aim to test hypotheses by manipulating certain variables while keeping others constant|a. TRUE
experimenter controls the independent variable(s) but not the dependent variable(s).
|a. TRUE
are three types of experimental design: different- participants, same-participants, & matched participants|a. TRUE
studies are done in natural environments|a. TRUE
observation and interviews are used to collect field studies data|a. TRUE
and theory-based techniques are used to analyze the data.|a. TRUE
observation and interviews are |d.  used to collect field studies data
and theory-based techniques are used to analyze the data.|c. analyze the data
experimenter controls the independent variable(s) but not |c. the dependent variable(s).
aim to test hypotheses by manipulating certain variables while keeping others constant|d. manipulating certain variables while keeping others constant
testing is an adapted form of experimentation|d. adapted form of expertises
testing is done in controlled conditions|a. controlled conditions
studies are done in natural environments|b. natural environments
are four types of experimental design, that's  true|b. FALSE
aim of field study|a. is to understand what users do naturally and how technology impacts them.
studies can be used in product design to|d. all the answers
of  same participant design|b. Few individuals, no individual differences
of  diff participant design|c. No order effects
of  matched  participant design|c. Same as different participants but individual differences reduced
of  matched  participant design|a. Cannot be sure of perfect matching on all differences
evaluation: |a. heuristic & walkthroughs
models are used to evaluate systems with predictable tasks such as telephones|a. TRUE
Keystroke Level Model, & Fitts?Law predict expert, error-free performance|a.
TRUE
evaluation relatively easy to learn|a. TRUE
evaluation: heuristic & walkthroughs|a. TRUE
predicts that the time to point at an object using a device is|b.  a function of the distance from the target object & the object?s size
further away & the ... the object, the longer the time to locate it and point to it. |a. smaller
is useful for evaluating systems for which ... to locate an object is important, e.g., a cell phone, a handheld devices|c. the time
keystroke model allows .. to be made about how long it takes an expert user to perform a task|d. predictions
models is|a. less expensive than user testing
models is less expensive than user testing|a. TRUE
models provide a way of evaluating products or designs without directly involving users|a. TRUE
models is usefulless limited to systems with predictable tasks -e.g., telephone answering systems, mobiles, cell phones, etc|b. FALSE
is managed discussion that leads to agreed decisions in Pluralistic walkthrough|a.
TRUE
by anyone in Pluralistic walkthrough|b. FALSE
walkthrough calls: Variation on the cognitive walkthrough theme. |a. TRUE
walkthrough lends itself well to participatory design|a. TRUE
walkthrough had it lent well to participatory design|b. FALSE
walkthroughs focus on|b. designer presents an aspect of the design & usage scenarios
walkthroughs experts focus on|c. is told the assumptions about user population, context of use, task details
walkthroughs are guided by ... questions|d. 3
walkthroughs are guided by these questions|d. Will the correct action be sufficiently evident to the user?
walkthroughs are guided by the third question|d. Will the user associate and interpret the response from the action correctly?
walkthroughs are guided by the first question|c. Will the correct action be sufficiently evident to the user?
Cognitive walkthroughs are guided by the second question|a. Will the user notice that the correct action is available?
|
Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives
One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience
One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory
Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency
Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences
Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency
Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things
A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model
Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts
Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model
Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces
Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked
Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining
Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE
..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory
?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential
?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition
?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs |
Attention
Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked
Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop
Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something
Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom
Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities
One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative
Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking
In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression
Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects
An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism
Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output
Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment
User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes
Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse
What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments
What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance
Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible
What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time
Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based
How many form main types of interviews? | 3
What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording
What is pilot study? | Small trial run
Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers
Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews
Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly
Open questions have | No predetermined format
Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE
Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers
Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory
Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work
What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89
SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages
Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs
Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary
The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction
Three principles of User-centered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design
Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated
The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE
Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment
In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.
In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis
Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?
Data requirements capture the required data | type, volatility, size/amount, persistence, accuracy and value
Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: |Major metaphors
Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people
communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression
Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment
User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical,
Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of User-centered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?   | Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & taskdomains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?  Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers
(4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?   |
Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people
communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression
Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment
User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes
Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical,
Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of User-centered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?  Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?   | Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers
(4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?  Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?   |  | Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?  Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers
(4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?   | Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?  Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?   | Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?  Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?   | Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?  Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?   |  |
Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people
communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design
| Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression
Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical,
Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of User-centered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?  Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers
(4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?   | Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an
application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?  Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?   | Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: |
Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers
(4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?  Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?   | Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?  Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers
(4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?   |  | Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?  Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?   | Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers
(4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?  Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?   | Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch
and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?  Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?   | Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data is | Difficult to measure sensibly as numbers  Theoretical frameworks for qualitative analysis is | Grounded Theory  Distributed Cognition | Used for analyzing collaborative work  What is mean value of the series numbers (4,5,6,7,7,8,8,8,9)? | 6.89  SPSS is one of the more popular quantitative analysis?c? | packages Four basic activities in Interaction Design are | Identifying needs, Developing alternative designs, Building interactive versions, Evaluating designs  Who are the users/stakeholders? | Those who in the primary, the secondary, the tertiary  The tertiary in stakeholders means | The who is affected by its introduction  Three principles of Usercentered design | Early focus, Empirical measurement, Iterative design  Spiral Lifecycle model defines | Iterative framework so ideas can be checked and evaluated  The term lifecycle model is used to represent a model that captures a set of activities and how they are related | TRUE  Environmental requirements or context of use refer to 4 environments | Physical, social, organisation, and technical environment  In requirement design, scenarios focus on | Used to articulate existing and envisioned work practices.  In requirement design, data interpretation focus on | Initial interpretation before deeper analysis  Different data interpretation approaches emphasize same elements | FALSE Non-functional requirement is | What response time system should be?  Interaction design means | Design interactive products to support the way people communicate and interact in their everyday lives  One of basic activities in Interaction Design | Evaluating needs & task-domains through users experience  One of followings that not usability goals | Satisfactory  Design principles are | Visibility, Constraints, Feedback, Consistency  Central to interaction design means | Determine how to create quality user experiences  Principle of "Having similar operations and use similar elements for achieving similar task" is concept of | Consistency  Pros when using interface metaphors is | Used to explain unfamiliar or hard to grasp things  A fundamental aspect of interactive design is | To develop a conceptual model  Based on Johnson & Henderson (2002) theory, guiding browsing from Web Browser called: | Relationships between concepts  Interface metaphor is | A central component of a conceptual model  Define conceptual model is to | Point out that it is a structure outlining the concept and relationship between user interfaces  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Opposition to using interface metaphors | Too constraining  Design interfaces that constrain and guide users to select appropriate actions after learning | FALSE  ..involves recalling various kinds of knowledge that allow us to act appropriately | Memory  ?cis a state of mind in which we act & react effectively & effortlessly | Experiential  ?cinvolves thinking, comparing and decision-making, that leads to creativity | Reflective cognition  ?crefers to how the info is acquired from the environment via the different sense organs | Attention  Problem space can be understood is | Usability and user experience goals can be overlooked  Conversational mechanisms | enable people to coordinate their "talk" with one another, allowing them to know how to start and stop  Coordination mechanisms | take place when a group of people act or interact together to achieve something  Awareness mechanisms | involve knowing who is around, what is happening, and who is talking with whom  Talk and the way it is managed is integral to | coordinating social activities  One that is not the form of speech act theory. | Decorative  Rule 3 of Conversational mechanisms is | the current speaker continues talking  In general, the term "affective" refers to | emotion expression  Anthropomorphism is the attribution of | human qualities to objects  An increasingly popular form of .....is to create agents and other virtual characters as part of an interface. | anthropomorphism  Embodied conversational interface agents are formed, often to be understood as | generating verbal and non-verbal output  Synthetic characters are formed, often to be understood as | 3D characters in video games or other forms of entertainment  User frustration happens when | When an application doesn?ft work properly or crashes  Windows interfaces can be defined as | could be scrolled, stretched, overlapped, opened, closed, and moved around the screen using the mouse  What does VR/VE stand for? | Virtual Reality/Virtual Environments  What is interface type in 1990s? | Advanced Graphical, Web, Speech, Pen, gesture, touch and Appliance  Which interface type that expert use in AutoCAD? | Tangible  What is advantage of flat menu? | Good at displaying a small number of options at the same time  Tangible interfaces are type of interaction and they use | Sensor-based  How many form main types of interviews? | 3  What are common form of data recording? | Taking notes, audio recording, taking photographs and video recording  What is pilot study? | Small trial run  Data gathering techniques can be combined depending on | All of the answers  Ethnography is | A philosophy with a set of techniques that include participant observation and interviews  Advantages of online questionnaires are | Responses are usually received quickly  Open questions have | No predetermined format  Data in the qualitative data is more difficult to measure than quantitative data? | TRUE Qualitative data 