True or False: A Project is defined as being unique and temporary, with an undefined start and finish. | False
We discussed three types of matrix organizations, they are: | Weak, Balanced and Strong
In a projectized organization: | The project manager acts as manager of the team.
True or False: The best organization to use to run a project will always be the projectized organization. | False
The five project management process groups as described in the PMBOK® Guide and discussed in the preceding lesson are: | Initiating, planning, executing, monitoring and controlling, closing
The three components of the triple constraint are: | Scope, Cost, Time
You have finished planning and have begun executing the project when the client asks if you would add some important features to the product of the project. How are the triple constraints affected? | Time and cost may both be affected
The primary role of the project manager is: | Communication
As discussed in the preceding lesson, The PMBOK® Guide knowledge areas that have processes in the Initiating process group are: | Project Integration Management and Project Stakeholder Management
As discussed in the preceding lesson, The PMBOK® Guide describes 10 Project Management Knowledge Areas. Identify 3 out of the 10: | Cost, Scope, Time
The definition of a stakeholder includes: | The people or organizations that are positively or negatively impacted by your project.
True or False: If you are not certain who your stakeholders are, asking who will use the product or service being created can be helpful. | True
If a stakeholder has high interest and high power then as the project manager you: | Focus your time and attention on them, they are very impactful to your project and you want to keep them engaged and positive.
You just came from a meeting with one of your project stakeholders, he knew about your project and was not against it, but did not seem to be particularly interested in it either. How would you classify him? | Neutral
True or False: The Project Sponsor is responsible for stakeholder expectations management. | False
Who is the stakeholder that will ultimately use the product or service you are creating? | Customer/User
One way to classify your stakeholders is to use the Power/Interest Grid. If a stakeholder is low interest / low power, what should the Project Manager do? | Monitor
Your stakeholder register is your primary output and should at least contain: | Assessment information, identification information, and stakeholder classification
You have a stakeholder on your project who has a reputation as being very difficult. He dislikes change and argues against any suggested updates to the way in which his department does their work. The project you are leading is going to significantly impact at least two processes used by his team. Which do you think is the best response to the situation? | Seek him out and begin to open communications with him about what is changing and why.
Identify the five engagement levels of stakeholders: | Unaware, resistant, neutral, supportive, leading
One of the ways a Project Charter can help you as a project manager is: | It describes your authority level as the project manager.
The Scope Management section of your project plan document would include information on: | Who can suggest changes to the project.
True or False: An important part of the project scope statement is exclusions or out of scope items. | True
As you plan your project, you do so thinking that all team members will be assigned to your project for at least 50% of their available time. This is an example of: | An assumption.
True or False: The WBS should completely depict the scope of your project that if something is not in the WBS it is because it is NOT part of the project. | True
The 8-80 rule refers to: | Work packages should be between 8 and 80 hours of effort.
Project scope differs from product scope in that: | Project scope is the work that needs to be accomplished to deliver a product, service, or result.
True or False. The Project Charter is a document issued by the project initiator or sponsor that formally authorizes the existence of a project. It provides the project manager with the authority to apply organizational resources to project activities. | True
The Project Scope Statement should include the following: | Project deliverables, project constraints, project assumptions.
True or False: A Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) is a deliverable-oriented hierarchical decomposition of the work to be executed by the project team. | True
True or False: Influence means you have the right to apply resources, make decisions and give approvals. | False
Which one of these is an example of role conflict: | When two team members are trying to complete the same task.
Two team members disagree on how to solve a project issue. They express their disagreement and then engage in a professional debate. This is an example of: | Healthy conflict.
You and another project manager disagree over whether a team member should work on your team or on her team. You decide that the team member can work for the other project manager in the afternoon and the other project manager says it is OK for the team member to work for you in the morning. The truth is you both wanted this person fulltime. The conflict resolution approach you have both used is: | Compromising
True or False: Conflict management is the process by which the project manager uses appropriate managerial techniques to deal with the inevitable disagreements that develop among those working toward project accomplishment. | True
Some of the major sources of conflict that a project manager may influence are: | Personality conflict, schedules, resources
What are the 5 approaches to conflict discussed in the Project Human Resources Management Lesson? | Confronting, Compromising, Smoothing, Forcing, Avoiding.
True or False: Project Human Resource Management includes the processes that organize, manage, and lead the project team. | True
True or False: Each person involved in the project should be assigned, but doesn't always need to know his or her role and responsibility. | False
What does RAM stand for: | Responsibility Assignment Matrix
An important part of the project scope statement is exclusions or out of scope items. | False
Conflict management is the process by which the project manager uses appropriate managerial techniques to deal with the inevitable disagreements that develop among those working toward project accomplishment. | True
Project Human Resource Management includes the processes that organize, manage, and lead the project team. | True
Each person involved in the project should be assigned, but doesn't always need to know his or her role and responsibility. | False
One of the ways a Project Charter can help you as a project manager is: | it describes your authority level as the project manager
The scope management section of your project plan document would include information on: | Who can suggest changes to the project
True or False: An important part of the project scope statement is exclusions or out of scope items | True
As you plan your project, you do so thinking that all team members will be assigned to your project at least 50% of their available time. This is an example of: | An assumption
True or False: The WBS should completely depict the scope of your project that if something is not in the WBS it is because it is NOT part of the project | True
The 8-80 Rule refers to: | Work packages should be between 8 and 80 hours of effort
Project scope differs from product scope in that: | Project scope is the work that needs to be accomplished to deliver a product, service, or result
True or False: The project Charter is a document issued by the project initiator or sponsor that formally authorizes the existence of a project. It provides the project manager with the authority to apply organizational resources to project activities | True
True or False: A Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) is a deliverable-oriented hierarchical decomposition of the work to be executed by the project team. | True
The definition of a stakeholder includes: | The people or organizations that are positively or negatively impacted by your project
True or False: If you are not certain who your stakeholders are, asking who will use the product of service being created can be helpful. | True
If a stakeholder has high interest and high power then as the project manager you: | Focus your time and attention on them, they are very impactful to your project and you want to keep them engaged and positive
True or False: The Project Sponsor is responsible for stakeholder expectations management | False
You have a stakeholder on your project who has a reputation as being very difficult. He dislikes change and argues against any suggested updates to the way in which his department does their work. The project you are leading is going to significantly impact at least two processes used by his team. Which do you think is the best response to the situation? | Seek him out and begin to open communications with him about what is changing and why
True or False: The term resources only refers to people, it does not include money or materials or equipment. | False
In our lessons the acronym RAM stands for: | Responsibility Assignment Matrix
When you use the RACI or Responsible, Accountable, Consult, Inform version of the RAM, those who are responsible are: | Completing the work
A work package is a/an: | Deliverable at the lowest level of the WBS
The WBS is used to derive all but one of the following: | The business need for the project
True or False: When it comes to projects, the emphasis is on strategic quality management. Quality is not an accident, quality is part of the plan, and quality is everyone's job. | True
The discipline of quality management complements the discipline of project management. Both recognize the importance of: | Customer satisfaction, prevention over inspection, continuous improvement, and management responsibility
True or False: Product quality focuses on the project management processes used to meet project objectives | False
The Process Improvement Plan is: | A subsidiary, or component of the project management plan.
True or False: Performing quality assurance within the context of a project involves applying the planned, systematic quality activities to ensure that the project correctly employs all processes needed to meet project objectives and product requirements. | True
An estimate created by looking at a similar project or activity and then adding or subtracting to or from the estimate based on the differences between the two is called: | Analogous estimating
When you have good historical information which can be used in a reliable formula or model, you will probably use: | Parametric estimating
True or False: When you are concerned that your estimates might not be correct, especially if you think they are too low, you should pad the estimate and add extra. | False
Which one of these most correctly defines management reserve? | Management reserve is not tied to specific work packages it is for the entire project.
You are preparing an estimate of the cost for an IT system expansion for a new branch office location. It is a very similar to the IT system expansion undertaken for a branch office that opened six months ago. Which technique might you use if you are pushed for a quick estimate? | Analogous
You are building an apartment complex with four, 10,000 square foot buildings based on the same drawings you used in another city two years ago. What is the danger of estimating using the same parametric model of $50 per square foot? | Historical cost relationships may no longer be applicable.
What description defines Bottoms Up Estimating? | A technique that involves estimating the cost of individual work packages or individual schedule activities with the lowest level of detail.
True or False: The Project Budget is equal to only the cost baseline budget. | False
True or False: The S-Curve depicts the relationship between the cost baseline budget and the schedule because it shows the planned cost baseline budget across the planned project timeline. | True
Earned value management integrates scope, cost, and schedule measures to: | assess project performance and progress.
When you schedule work in a specific order because it cannot be completed any other way this is what type of dependency? | Mandatory
True or False: If develop online modules must be 100% completed before review online modules can begin, that is called a finish to start relationship. | True
If develop online modules needs to finish before review online modules can finish, that is called a: | Finish to finish relationship.
To calculate early start (ES) and early finish (EF) perform a: | Forward pass
True or False: The critical path is the shortest path through the network and represents the work that can be delayed without delaying the end of the project. | False
The network diagram is the best tool for demonstrating: | The sequence of project activities
All of the following are inputs to estimating activity durations except: | Requirements specifications
In a project schedule, the sequence of activities which cannot be delayed during the course of the project without extending the project end date is referred to as the: | Critical path
A significant event in a project that may indicate completion of a major phase is a/an: | Milestone
Once the logic of a network is laid out, the project manager will conduct a forward pass and a backward pass through the network. This will provide information regarding ______ and will identify the________. | The total duration of the project, critical path
True or False: A project manager spends 75% of his or her time communicating. | False
Which item would most likely NOT be part of a basic communication plan: | The amount of their annual bonus.
Upward communication is communication to/from: | Your senior management.
When you report project status you compare actual performance to: | The planned performance or baseline.
True or False: Earned value integrates scope, schedule and budget and uses monetary values to assess project status. | True
You are beginning to staff your project. Which of the following will not be used in developing and/or communicating roles and responsibilities? | Pareto chart
Which of the following is not likely to be documented in a communications management plan? | Person responsible for tracking risk events
True or False: Effective project communication management creates a bridge between stakeholders based on a shared understanding of the project and the ongoing sharing of information needed for its success. | True
A Communications Management Plan does the following: | Lays out the approach and method for delivering information effectively and efficiently.
Who should take the most responsibility for clear and effective communication? | The purpose of project risk management is to: |    Minimize the likelihood or the impact of negative events or threats to your project and to increase the likelihood or impact of positive events.
True or False: A positive risk is an opportunity; a negative risk is a threat. | True
When you and your team know that a negative risk has a high likelihood of occurring and it will be very impactful if it does: | You should develop a response to handle this risk.
If the response you choose is to avoid a risk this means that: | You change your plans so that you eliminate the risk.
Once you and your team identify and assess risks and develop responses you: | Continue to identify and monitor risks for the remainder of the project.
In a project context, risk is defined as: | An uncertain event that, if it occurs, will have a positive or negative effect on at least one project objective.
The Risk Management Plan is a subsidiary to the __________ document. | Project Management Plan
A useful tool in identifying risks is the SWOT analysis. What does SWOT stand for? | Strengths, opportunities, weaknesses, and threats
True or False: The primary output from the identification of risks is the risk register. | True
During a risk brainstorming session a team member identifies a risk. This particular risk does not seem to belong to any of the categories in you Risk Breakdown Structure (RBS). How should you respond? | Record the list in the risk register, discuss potential responses and make a note to update the RBS.
Which one of these situations most closely represents scope creep: | The project scope keeps changing and team members are not sure why and the project seems like it will never end.
True or False: Unregulated changes allow for innovation and flexibility. Regulating changes causes a lack of creativity. | False
Which of these types of changes should be discouraged as a poor project practice: | Stakeholders did not take the time to define scope earlier in the project.
A good change process will: | Have change thresholds that are appropriate for the type of change.
The purpose of capturing lessons learned is: | To capture what went well so that you can recreate the good and to capture what could have gone better so that next time it will go better.
To ensure control over the incidence and frequency of change, the project manager establishes a: | Change control process
Your project team is customer focused and often agrees to incorporate many small scope changes throughout the project execution. The changes are documented in an issues log. Which of the following is not a potential problem? | Changes with impacts on cost or time will be elevated to the Change Control Board.
True or False: In the context of a project, change is always a bad thing. | False
Scope creep results in: | Completion delays, escalation of costs, and increase in project complexity.
A project manager can defend against scope creep with a good ___________! | Change control process
A Project is defined as being unique and temporary, with an undefined start and finish. | False
The PMBOK® Guide and in the preceding lesson describes 10 Project Management Knowledge Areas. Identify 3 out of the 10: | Cost, Scope, Time
Influence means you have the right to apply resources, make decisions and give approvals. | False
An important part of the project scope statement is exclusions or out of scope items. | True
If you are not certain who your stakeholders are, asking who will use the product or service being created can be helpful. | True
The WBS should completely depict the scope of your project that if something is not in the WBS it is because it is NOT part of the project. | True
The Project Charter is a document issued by the project initiator or sponsor that formally authorizes the existence of a project. It provides the project manager with the authority to apply organizational resources to project activities. | True
A Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) is a deliverable-oriented hierarchical decomposition of the work to be executed by the project team. | True
The best organization to use to run a project will always be the projectized organization. | False
The Project Sponsor is responsible for stakeholder expectations management. | False
While looking at the project cost baseline graph shown below, a project manager sees that the stair-step line's last point is higher than the estimate at completion (EAC). What does this relationship mean for the project? | Total funding for the project exceeds the project's anticipated needs
Your company has just been awarded the contract for an important research project. The CEO of your company has asked you, as the project manager, to create the project charter and send it to her so that she can review and approve it. To create the project charter, you need the project's statement of work (SOW). What should you do? | Ask your customer to provide you with the SOW
A project manager is leading a project to investigate the feasibility of constructing a dam to generate hydroelectric power. The project needs to be analyzed from technical, economic, and social points of view. The project manager has created the project charter on behalf of the project sponsor, and it is now approved. Which of the following processes should be performed next? | Identify Stakeholders
You are managing a software upgrade project for your company. Your project sponsor has a great deal of authority regarding project decisions, but you recently discovered that he doesn't have much interest in your project. To complete the project successfully, you need your project sponsor's continuous support. What stakeholder management strategy should you use with your project sponsor? | Keep the sponsor satisfied
A project manager is leading the construction of a new office building. The project sponsor asks the project manager to email him a project document that was presented during the last project status meeting. The project sponsor states that he has forgotten the name of the document, but he remembers it contained the description, owner, source, priority, and status of product requirements. Which project document is the project sponsor requesting? | The requirements traceability matrix
You are facing problems decomposing the testing work package into the final activities required to complete the work package. Detailed testing plans and activities cannot be determined until the system is at least 50% developed and more details become available. The system development work package will take at least three months to complete. What is the best way to resolve this problem? | Decompose the system development work package now and decompose the system testing work package later
You are managing a project in Alaska to extend an existing oil pipeline, and you are about to start project planning. Due to the large size of the project along with the regulatory and environmental considerations, the development of a detailed project management plan will be critical. As a starting point for initial project planning, what is the first thing you should do? | Review the project charter to understand the high-level information about the project
You are a project manager planning a project to develop a new payroll system, and you are currently in the process of determining, documenting, and managing stakeholder needs and requirements to meet project objectives. A project stakeholder has suggested that it would be helpful to have a visual depiction showing how people and other systems will interact with the new payroll system. You like the idea and want to address it. What is the best way to implement the stakeholder's suggestion? | Develop a context diagram
Recently, you promoted your star programmer, Sam, to lead the development team. Sam was a fantastic software coder, and you thought the promotion would mean that he could now share his expertise with the other development team members. However, you are surprised to learn that the performance of Sam in his new role is not meeting your expectations. Which empirical rule did you forget while considering the promotion of Sam? | Peter principle
You have just taken over a project to overhaul the company's telecommunications network. During your first week, you determine that the engineers spend at least 80% of their time responding to unexpected requests for information from different project stakeholders. Because of these interruptions, your engineers cannot focus on their assigned project activities, which is resulting in frequent network outages. What should you do first? | Review the communications management plan to understand how stakeholder requests should be handled
You are managing a project to develop a new robot for a mining rescue company. You are currently performing a monitoring and controlling project activity, and you have discovered that some of the project work has not been performed according to the plan. If these issues are not fixed before the next customer inspection, your project might be canceled. You have analyzed the situation, and the corrective action will only require a minor adjustment to a configuration element. What should you do first? | Submit a change request
A project manager is leading a process improvement project for a factory operation. Currently, the project manager and the team are performing the Monitor and Control Project Work process. Which of the following activities might the project manager and the team conduct during this process? | Comparing actual project performance against the project management plan
You are employed by a software development company as a project manager. Your company has a policy that a change control board (CCB) reviews all of the change requests for every project in your organization, and the CCB follows all the recommended activities outlined in the PMBOK® Guide. You and your project team do not serve as members of the CCB. Based on this scenario, which of the following activities might be performed by members of the CCB? | Creating a change request
You are managing a hotel construction project, and you have asked your project team to calculate the current earned value metrics to determine the project performance. Your team reports back that the project's to-complete performance index (TCPI) is 0.9 based on the budget at completion (BAC). Which of the following is true regarding your project's current situation as reflected by this TCPI value? | The project is within budget
You are working with your team on estimating how much time each activity will take. One of the documents you are using contains information on categories of labor, material, and equipment required to complete your project. You are also interested to see skill levels of your labor, any certifications required, and grade levels of your supplies. Which of the following documents would you primarily refer to for this purpose? | Resource breakdown structure
You are managing an engineering design project. The vendor has created 50 engineering drawings. Since the project is on a tight schedule and budget, checking every drawing for accuracy and completeness would be impossible. You direct the team to randomly select 20 drawings for inspection. This exercise can best be described as an example of: | Statistical sampling
During an inspection of a project deliverable, the team detects the same defect in the deliverable that has already been identified during a previous inspection. The project manager is confused how this could have happened since a change request was approved to correct the defect. After discussing the issue with the team, the project manager learns that the team never implemented the approved change request. What could have helped prevent this situation? | Holding an approved change requests review
After taking over a project that is in the middle of execution, you are looking for information about the quality management issues that have been escalated by the team and any corrective actions that have been recommended and/or implemented. What should you do? | Review the quality reports
A project manager is leading a project to streamline the manufacturing process of modular homes. The project manager researches and discovers a set of technical guidelines that will make the homes easier and cheaper to manufacture without compromising quality. The team incorporates these guidelines by designing a new modular home that reduces the total number of parts and uses more standard and multi-functional components. This is an example of: | Design for X
You are a project manager for a national consumer goods retailer. Currently, you are about to start the development of the assumption log for a project to build a new retail store. What should you do first? | Read the project business case
You are managing a project to update the packaging and digital media for a popular snack food to promote a charity fundraiser. The project is well underway, and you are currently actively collecting and storing information about each deliverable team's progress, creating forecasts for your sponsor, distributing work performance reports and planning presentations to key stakeholders, and verifying delivery. Which process are you performing? | Manage Communications
The following table is an activity list that includes the duration and predecessor for a series of project activities. What is the duration of the critical path? | 14
A project manager is about to start planning a software development project. The project sponsor would like to review any project risks that have been identified at this point. Which document should the project manager recommend the sponsor to review? | Project charter
You have recently been assigned to lead a project that is halfway into execution. The project has many stakeholders, and you are trying to determine how to engage them effectively. Which of the following will best help you in this effort? | Project management plan
As a project manager, you are in the process of establishing a knowledge management system for your project. Which of the following actions will be the least beneficial in this process? | Reading the requirements documentation
Two new team members have just joined the project you are leading. The project is large and involves many stakeholders. You want to get the new team members up to speed with the overall dynamics of the project and engage effectively with the project stakeholders. What should you do? | Review the stakeholder register with the new team members
A project manager had originally planned to use both of the company's industrial 3D printers simultaneously for a project but has just learned that one of them will be unavailable. The project manager adjusts the schedule so that the components are created sequentially using the one remaining 3D printer. Unfortunately, this action affects the critical path and delays the planned finish date of the project. What tool or technique has the project manager used in this situation? | Resource leveling
A new project is starting, and the team members come from all over the world. The project manager has concerns about communications. What should the project manager do first? | Enroll the project team members in cultural training to raise cultural awareness
Midway into project execution, one of your senior project team members is leaving the company. Due to a delay in filling the position, you have decided to assign the affected tasks to two less experienced employees. Which factor would most strongly affect the duration of their assigned tasks? | Number of resources
You are leading a project to build an oil pipeline in a foreign country, and you are looking for local contractors to outsource some of the construction work. You are in the process of preparing the bid package for prospective sellers. Which of the following documents would you leave out of the package? | Independent cost estimates
You are developing the communications management plan for a construction project. You want to determine the information needs of the project stakeholders, specifically focusing on the type and the format of information that will be required to communicate with the stakeholders. What is your best course of action? | Conduct a communication requirements analysis
You are managing the development of a new blood pressure cuff for a customer who provided you with the objectives and description of the cuff. You and your team are decomposing the customer's high-level requirements to the level of detail needed to design the blood pressure cuff and therefore define the scope of the product. In what activity are you involved? | Product analysis
Your risk report shows that project risk exposure overall has grown close to a negative threshold. Before the next regular meeting, you ask risk owners to present any risks and opportunities that may affect short-term activities. In the meeting, it becomes clear that risk owners from less engaged departments did not implement some of the previously approved responses. What should you do now to reduce risk exposure? | Privately confront the risk owners with the issue and collaborate to remove any impediments to the risk responses
As part of the process to develop the scope statement for the project you are leading, you specify the deliverables for the project, include the requirements under which the deliverables will be accepted, and explicitly state what is out of project scope. What should you do next? | Describe product scope in the scope statement
With the start of project execution, a project manager needs to acquire the development team. However, the project sponsor indicates that of those developers who were planned for the project, one is unavailable as she is currently completing another project. What should the project manager do to understand the proposed team member's future availability? | Look at the project documents
Up until now, your project team has allowed the use of flextime where project team members may take time off during regular business hours and make up the time during the evening hours or weekends. Recently, excessive use of flextime has become a roadblock as some team members are not available when needed. The team feels they should set a standard that flextime is only to be used for personal emergencies. How should you handle this situation? | Discuss the issue with the team and update the team charter accordingly
You work with your team to sequence activities on the project you are leading. You are looking for the factors, constraints, and potential dependencies among project activities that can influence the way activities are sequenced, as well as help you understand the relationship between activities and the need for leads and lags. Where could you find this information? | Assumption log
You have completed a nine-month project, and you are in the closing stage. The project completed on time and under budget and everyone in your department has congratulated you on your achievement. The vice president of your company heard about the success of your project and wants a summary overview of project performance so that he can talk about your success at the next board meeting. What should you provide to him? | Final report
As a project manager, you are leading a software development project where the developers are colocated within rented office space. Writing the code is taking longer than anticipated, and you have contacted the office facility to ensure the office will be available for another week. Unfortunately, the office is already booked, so you need to find another solution. After capturing the problem in the project documents, what should you do next? | Revise the resource management plan
A project manager is conducting the initial process of identifying stakeholders for a new infrastructure development project. The project manager has just compiled a list of potential stakeholders' names. What should the project manager do next? | Conduct stakeholder analysis
You are leading a project to construct a new runway at an existing commercial airport. After completion of the project, the residents under the flight path of the new runway are making noise complaints and want the airport to compensate them for the diminished values of their homes. What might you have missed earlier in the project? | Stakeholder analysis including consideration for those with an interest stake in the project
Following is an illustration of a project network activity node that includes some information about activity Given the information provided, what is the total float of activity D? | 16
During a bidder conference, a supplier asks why a section is missing from the request for quotation (RFQ). The project manager, realizing that an aspect of the project is indeed missing, becomes flustered and stumbles through a brief reply. When the seller responses were received, all but three fail to address the missing section. What is the best course of action? | Send a revised RFQ to all prospective suppliers and allow them the opportunity to resubmit their proposals
You are leading a project to develop a new web application. Together with your project team you reprioritize the product backlog, determine velocity for the past iterations, and adapt your work plans accordingly. Additionally, you facilitate retrospectives every two weeks. Which of the following processes describes the work you are performing? | Control Schedule
You are part of a cross-functional organizational development team, piloting an adaptive approach to project management in an organization that has traditionally used a predictive approach. You realize that you have to tailor the template of the schedule management plan. Which of the following components of the template are you likely to tailor the most? | The schedule model development, the release and iteration length, and the reporting formats
Your boss is giving you a rough outline of the scope, constraints, and risks involved in a prospective client's project. The project is highly similar to another project you are currently closing. The sponsor wants to know how long this project would take your team to complete. You think your team may need two months, but what should your answer be? | "If it truly resembles this project we are closing, it could be six to ten weeks."
A project team performs monthly risk audits for a project in which a large number of identified risks have been realized. So far, the risk responses have been appropriate, and reserves are sufficient. An executive for the requesting organization chides the project manager for doing risk audits improperly, stating that like all audits, outside independent resources need to perform risk audits. How should the project manager respond? | Explain that risk audits can be performed either internally or externally as long as they follow the project management plan
With a parking garage construction project underway, you are currently creating the risk management plan. In support of this process, you need to determine the acceptable level of overall project risk exposure. What should you do first? | Determine the risk appetites of key project stakeholders
A project manager has just learned that the customer is not showing up to requirements meetings saying they have other more important tasks. Since this behavior has already been identified as a risk earlier in the project, the project manager escalates the issue to the stakeholder who is the risk owner responsible for communicating with the customer in such situations. The stakeholder is shocked to find out she is the assigned risk owner. What most likely went wrong? | The project manager did not notify the stakeholder that they were the risk owner
A project is underway to construct a 50 story office building. With construction nearly complete, a government inspector has issued a stop order because one of the cranes failed inspection. The schedule reserves are inadequate to cover the resulting delay from the unavailability of the key resource. What should the project manager do next? | Submit a change request to update the schedule baseline
A project manager notifies the project sponsor that the mitigation strategy for a major risk did not work. The sponsor states that the same risk response was implemented a few months ago on a similar project with the same result. How might this situation have been avoided? | The project manager should have researched the lessons learned repository for knowledge gained throughout similar past projects
You are planning a project to construct a luxury condominium complex that will include jacuzzi tubs among its numerous features. Due to technical constraints, it has been decided to eliminate the jacuzzi tubs from the final project requirements. You document the jacuzzi tubs as an explicit scope exclusion in the project scope statement as well as update the requirements documentation to reflect this change. What should you do next? | Reflect the scope exclusion in the requirements traceability matrix
You are managing the development of a new smartphone in an extremely competitive market. You are planning the must-have features of the smartphone in detail so that work can begin and the product can be released to the market as early as possible. The future features are unknown at the moment and will depend on what the competitors release. You will plan these features in greater detail later on. As you and your team create the work breakdown structure (WBS), what will you use to indicate the future features? | Planning packages
A project to construct a new subway line is underway, and the tunnel boring machine has slowed due to unexpected changes in rock composition. It has been decided to implement the planned risk response by increasing the speed of the machine to 100% of rated capacity. The team believes that the additional strain on the machine will not cause more downtime for its maintenance thus negating the benefit of faster boring. What should the project manager do first? | Revise the assumption log
The project you have been managing for several years is now moving towards completion. Some of the project deliverables have been contracted to vendors. You begin to close the project and want to make sure all activities necessary for project closure are properly completed. Which of the following activities would you not perform as part of this process? | Closing procurements with vendors
While working to determine the budget for an avionics project, the company decides to hire a highly reputable financial analyst that has worked in the aviation industry for three decades. Halfway through the project, a series of unanticipated risk events occur, and the project cannot pay its invoices. What is most likely to be the cause? | The management reserves were exhausted
You are part of the project team designing a new type of subway car. You have completed the last work package for the braking system; however, you are not sure what the acceptance criteria are for this particular work package. Where can you find that information? | The WBS dictionary
You are leading a project team with a technology upgrade project within a project-oriented organizational structure. You were recently informed that one of your project team members falsified required certifications on their resume', and you have verified the information as accurate. You want to terminate the team member's employment. What should you do first? | Review the enterprise environmental factors
During a recession, a project manager posts a positive risk that in the current economic environment, cheaper resources may become available. On the way into work, the project manager hears about a competitor going out of business and contacts the competitor to acquire some equipment, materials, and supplies at a fraction of their normal value. What is the project manager doing? | Reacting to a contingency plan trigger
A project manager is identifying stakeholders for a new product development project. Which of the following activities is the project manager least likely to perform in the creation of the stakeholder register? | Submit a change request to update the stakeholder engagement plan
A project manager is facilitating a first brainstorming session to identify individual risks as well as sources of overall project risk. The meeting attendees are struggling with the task, and the meeting is becoming unproductive. What action might the project manager take to get the meeting back on track? | Use the RBS as a prompt list
You are establishing the relative priorities of individual project risks that have been identified earlier in the project. Which of the following tasks are you least likely to perform? | Create the risk report
A previously unknown risk surfaces on a project and creates an issue that is estimated to cost $50,000. The project manager submits a change request to adjust the schedule baseline and uses the already approved contingency reserves to address the cost. What did the project manager do wrong? | The project manager used contingency reserves instead of management reserves.
A project manager for a software development project has collected the work performance data and used the requirements documentation and requirements traceability matrix to generate the work performance information regarding variances in the project work compared to the baseline. What process is the project manager performing? | Control Scope
A project is six months into its nine-month projected duration, and the project manager is reporting that the project is at least three months behind schedule because certain key stakeholders were resistant to any changes that might occur as outcomes of the project. What might have been done differently during project planning to have avoided this situation? | Development of a stakeholder engagement assessment matrix
A project manager is currently in the process of prioritizing individual project risks by assessing their detectability, proximity, and impact value. The project manager would like to create a graphical representation of these three dimensions. What is the best course of action? | Develop a bubble chart
A project manager is leading an infrastructure development project and is just starting the process of prioritizing individual project risks for further analysis. A stakeholder has expressed concern that the existing information about individual project risks may not be accurate and reliable. What is the best course of action? | Perform a risk data quality assessment
A project manager is leading a project to build a new model of all-terrain vehicle (ATV). The initial plan called for the suspension parts to be painted. However, in response to an issue captured in the issue log, it has been recommended to use powder coating instead of paint for better corrosion resistance. As it pertains to the acquisition of resources, what should be done next? | Submit a change request
In a steering committee meeting for a project to build a new state-of-the-art communications device, the committee chair reprimands the project manager for not using the company's file sharing system as required by the organization. The project manager explains that the project team chose a newer tool for the project, as it was much better. What most likely caused this situation? | The project manager did not review the organizational process assets
A project manager is meeting with Sally, the program manager, to review the decomposed deliverables for a new product. Sally reviews the work breakdown structure and requests it to be arranged in the order the work should be performed. Is Sally correct saying that the work breakdown structure should be ordered according to how the work will be performed? | Sally is wrong. The chronological order of tasks is defined in the Sequence Activities process.
You are a project manager for a new product development project that is in the planning stages. Your project team has just finished creating the activities list and is now in the process of identifying and documenting relationships among the project activities. While meeting with your project team, you notice that a series of activities can be done in parallel but must finish in a specific sequence. Your team is debating which type of activity sequencing method to use. What would you tell them? | Precedence diagramming method
You and your team have compiled your project's activity list, determined how the activities should be performed and analyzed the schedule. You are preparing information for the project sponsor to highlight the identified activities that may create a delay in the overall project schedule. Which of the following would be most useful in this situation? | Project network diagrams
You are the project manager for the construction of a new thin-crust pizza vending machine. You take all the information gathered in the project management plan to date and begin to develop a project schedule. When you reach the activity labeled as 6.5.3, you are unsure if a refrigeration specialist is needed for the installation of the cooling mechanism for the pizza dough. What project document would you reference in order to get information on the resources required for installing the cooling mechanism? | Activity attributes
You are leading a project to design a high-efficiency solar cell. The materials that you are acquiring for this project include copper, silver, and silicon among others, and you have also ordered custom built manufacturing equipment. Additionally, you have secured permission from the landlord to install a solar array on the roof of the corporate office for testing, and reserved a conference room for daily stand-up meetings. What is the result of your efforts? | Physical resource assignments
A project to build a new water treatment plant is in the planning stage. The project manager is starting the project management process of Plan Risk Management. The project sponsor is risk averse, and this will affect the risk management plan. In preparing the risk management plan, the project manager is seeking a high-level understanding of the project description and boundaries, high-level requirements, and risks. Where is the best place for the project manager to find this information? | Project charter
As a project manager, you will need the assistance of other stakeholders in order to identify the risks associated with your project. You want to determine who are the individuals that might participate in the process of identifying risks to the project, as well as those who are available to act as risk owners. Where should you look? | Stakeholder register
As part of project planning, you and your project team are developing a comprehensive list of individual project risks and sources of overall project risk. You want to analyze the validity of assumptions and constraints to determine which pose a risk to the project. Which technique will be the most helpful for you? | Data analysis
John is the project manager for a large construction project. He has just completed a Monte Carlo analysis simulation when he learns from a team member that some of the cost estimates used in the simulation were incorrect. John is highly risk-averse and concerned about this issue, so he meets with his team to discuss options for how to move forward. Based on this information, which choice below best describes what the team would likely do with the results from the Monte Carlo analysis? | Reject the results; the Monte Carlo results would be inaccurate and should not be used
Tom is a project manager for a large software project. During project risk planning, Tom and his team are trying to decide whether to invest $10 million to develop new software or to instead invest $5 million to upgrade the existing software. The team is uncertain how strong demand will be for their product and, therefore, must account for this uncertainty in their analysis. What would be the best tool for the project manager to use in this case? | Decision tree analysis
Wendy is a project manager for an IT data center installation in a country that recently established independence. The country is in a strategic location for fiber optic communications, but the political climate is highly unstable. In order to keep the data center in the country but avoid unnecessary influence from the political dynamics, Wendy has negotiated with the U.S. Department of State to establish the data center in the basement of the U.S. Consulate in the capital city. This is an example of: | Risk mitigation
A team member has been tasked to send the request for proposal (RFP), source selection criteria, and procurement statement of work (SOW) to potential sellers. The documentation is stored digitally on the corporate computer network. Which folder from the project directory is most likely to include these documents? | Procurement documentation
As a project manager for a small university, you are currently in the process of selecting a vendor to develop a textbook and other training materials for a new course. Several vendors are interested in bidding on the contract. During a bidder conference, one of the prospective suppliers asks about ownership of the intellectual property that will be created from the project. Which project document should have this information at this stage of the project? | Requirements documentation
A project manager is currently managing a manufacturing process improvement project which will be completed in five phases. The project manager has prepared the following chart to review the status of the project. Based on the information provided, what is the earned value of the project? | $7,750
During a project's review, an executive states the project manager failed to forecast future outcomes based on past results, review how other projects addressed the similar issues, and analyze alternative solutions to issues. What has the project manager most likely overlooked with his intuitive manner of running the project? | Using analytical techniques
You are developing a project management plan for a project that is part of a program. You have just been informed that a new procedure has been added to the program management plan. The procedure requires that all changes that exceed $10,000 in cost have to be reviewed by the change control board (CCB). What should you do? | Add the new procedure to the project management plan
The project is nearing its end. The executives are anxious to assign the project manager to other projects. However, before moving on, the project manager has to deliver the final product to the customer. What should the project manager do first? | Obtain stakeholder approval
A project team member runs an earned value analysis (EVA) report. There is an unexpected spike in actual costs over the last three weeks. The team member shows the report to the project manager and based on her analysis presents four possible reasons for the spike. Which reason is most probable? | Soaring steel prices have impacted the fixed price with economic price adjustments procurement contracts
During the project's iterations, the daily standup meetings have been held at 9 AM every day. Three of the project team members have missed or been late to the last seven meetings because they are running tests in another building each of those days. These tests will most likely continue for the rest of the iteration. What is the project manager's best action? | Move the meeting to a set time later in the day
The updated version of the product is to be at the customer's location by the end of the week, but the team realizes they will be unable to complete the deliverable by then. The project manager and the team have looked for solutions to resolve this issue but there is nothing to avert missing the deadline. The deployment team who is supposed to install the product at the customer site is under a lot of stress to meet their deadline and are going to be furious that the update will not be there at the end of the week. What is the project manager's best action? | Make the phone call to the customer to inform them of the delay
A dashboard viewable by all project stakeholders displays various statuses using the industry standard of red, yellow, and green colors. Throughout project execution, to meet the needs of the project and some of the project stakeholders, the project manager has been adding more colors to reflect additional statuses. This situation has created confusion among some of the stakeholders over the status naming conventions and meanings. What should the project manager do? | Explain the meaning of the new statuses to the stakeholders
A new project manager is brought on the project. She wants to understand the process by which this particular project formally accepts deliverables. Which of the following will she have to reference? | The scope management plan
The project has reached a stage where work is being done in seven countries. Project team members need to know in which currency they are to report their cost data. Which of the following should they reference? | Cost management plan
The project has to produce 10,000 new parts. The inspection points and their frequency along production must be determined. The part specifications and inspection modes to be used also need to be decided. In which process are these project plans defined? | Plan Quality Management
An international project is entering its final phase. Some work in this phase must be done in the foreign country. Unsure if company policy requires a full-time employee onsite for project work in that country, which project artifact should the project scheduler reference? | Team management plan
A project has been initiated to search a large area for debris from an explosion of a failed prototype. The project is now in planning, and there is a debate among the team members on the type and quantity of resources needed to complete this activity. What should the project manager do first? | Research various levels of resource capability and skills, types, and sizes
Services are still being billed to the project even though no additional services are required or requested. What is the best option for the project manager to take? | Confirm that no more services are needed and the procurement agreements are closed
Managing the project team for an agile based project, the project manager takes a servant role and allows the team to be self-organizing. Why is this possible? | The team is comprised of generalists and able to support each other fluidly.
The following Gantt chart displays the schedule for a software upgrade project. The system analysis was completed on August 12th, but the system design and development activities are still in process as of October 3rd. Once the product is developed, the project team will need to test and deploy it, which must be completed by October 17th. What is the cost variance as of October 3rd? | $650
The project manager is trying to get sign off for a series of marketing materials. The work is rejected by the stakeholders responsible for sign off because of incorrect use of marketing standards. What should the project manager do before sending materials to the stakeholders again? | Perform quality control checks before validating the scope
The project is not getting the marketing team to update the content of the online magazine website as scheduled. The outdated content is causing confusion among readers. What can the project manager do to engage the marketing team and make the needed changes as soon as possible? | Communicate the importance and urgency of the change
Your company was recently awarded a software development project, and you have just completed the scope management plan. The sponsor reviews the plan and states that the client specified the use of Scrum, while the plan indicates a waterfall approach. Which component of the project management plan did you most likely overlook while developing the scope management plan? | Development approach
A project manager is developing a cost management plan and needs to determine the best source of funding for a project that is dictated by a legal requirement. The cost of capital is estimated at 9.7% for non-dividend paying equity, 6.7% for debt, and 5.1% for self-funding. The NPV of the project is $500,000 with an opportunity cost of $750,000. What is the project manager's best course of action? | Perform an alternatives analysis since there are multiple factors to consider
You are in the process of developing an approximation of the monetary resources needed to complete project work for a large-scale multinational project which will take at least seven years to complete. Your previous projects have all been domestic with short timeframes. As part of the process you are currently performing, what might you need to do differently compared with your past projects? | Consider additional enterprise environmental factors
A project manager is in the process of creating the quality management plan for a product development project. Currently, the project manager needs to understand and then estimate the cost of quality for a particular process. What is the best course of action? | Build a SIPOC model
As a project manager, you are developing a resource management plan for your software development project, and you need to find a way to document and communicate the detailed descriptions of the team members' roles and responsibilities. What tool will best meet your needs? | Role-responsibility-authority form
An apartment building construction project is currently in the planning stage. The project manager has decided to use analogous estimating to create the resource requirements and resource breakdown structure. What should the project manager do first? | Research the organizational process assets
You are conducting the source selection analysis for an office building renovation project. One project requirement involves setting up the WiFi system once the hardware has been installed. The value of this procurement is relatively small, and you have decided that a full selection process does not make sense. With three prospective vendors listed as pre-approved sellers, what is the best course of action? | Establish a qualifications only selection method
A company has been awarded a software development project which requires the development team to work at the client's office. The client has assigned each developer a cubicle from which to perform their work. During a daily standup meeting, a developer states that the team members are too isolated and colocating the team in a war room would increase productivity and quality. What should the project manager do first? | Capture a description of the developer's concern in the issue log
You are assigned to a software development project, and you are conducting a product review with an important client. Although the deliverables were previously verified, the client detects a defect and rejects one of the deliverables. What should you do? | Submit a change request to fix the deliverable
A key stakeholder has been resistant to the project's objectives, and the support of this stakeholder is vital to the success of the project. The project manager has employed various engagement strategies which have been ineffective and needs to determine the underlying reason that stakeholder engagement is not having the planned effect. What should the project manager do next? | Conduct data analysis
The agile project team members are all working in an open office space arrangement. There are many conversations happening concurrently throughout the day. Which of the following is the best option for the project manager? | Schedule frequent team checkpoints and post project artifacts in a transparent fashion
The project requires frequent input from the senior management team. Some of the past projects succeeded to engage the team, however, most failed as senior management is notorious throughout the organization of responding slowly and not attending meetings. What is the best strategy for the stakeholder engagement plan of the current project? | Review lessons learned from other projects involving the management stakeholders
Not all team members are properly checking out resources used in the project. What is the best option for the project manager? | Discuss the checkout rationale with the team
Your sponsor has committed to building a high-speed rail from one major inland city, Azules, to the coast. You have two possible routes, either Brazos or Corazon. Given each route's costs, odds, and rewards of high demand and low demand in this decision tree, how would you quantify the expected monetary value of the route to Brazos? | 0.8 billion
Stakeholders are not sure what to do about the multiple failures the project has been experiencing recently. Changes need to be made quickly otherwise the project may be terminated as consistently missing its objectives. What should the project manager do first? | Facilitate a discussion amongst the stakeholders on what should be changed
In a pharmaceutical project, human trials are to start soon. The CEO is thrilled about the success of the trials up to this point. She announces that the size of the patient pool for the trials should double from the one originally planned and results tracked in the new system launching this week. What should the project manager do first? | Consider what might be included in a change request
The product trade show is approaching. The project team must produce functional prototypes for the event. The team is also tasked with many other competing project tasks. What can the project manager do in the next iteration planning? | Reprioritize the remaining work in the product backlog
The project sponsor is concerned about possible ethics violations between the project and vendors. What independent review can the sponsor order? | Procurement audit
The project manager and the team decide that the project will be divided into five-week iterations with two weeks in between for retrospectives and iteration planning. Where is this documented? | Schedule management plan
Sharing of project information is of utmost importance to the organization. Project knowledge is shared on multiple systems, services, and apps. The array of locations is becoming overwhelming for some of the project team members. What is the best option for the project manager to manage the project knowledge in this situation? | Consolidate or streamline sharing processes where possible